
www.ztcprep.com

yeah,” said Aberforth, “I’m not deaf, the whole of
Hogsmeade heard him. And it never occurred to any
of you to keep a few Slytherins hostage? There are
kids of Death Eaters you’ve just sent to safety.
Wouldn’t it have been a bit smarter to keep ’em here?”
“It wouldn’t stop Voldemort,” said Harry, “and your
brother would never have done it.”
Aberforth grunted and tore away in the opposite
direction.
Your brother would never have done it. … Well, it was
the truth, Harry thought as he ran on again;
Dumbledore, who had defended Snape for so long,
would never have held students ransom. …
And then he skidded around a final corner and with a
yell of mingled relief and fury he saw them: Ron and
Hermione, both with their arms full of large, curved,
P a g e | 703
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
dirty yellow objects, Ron with a broomstick under his arm.
“Where the hell have you been?” Harry shouted.

www.ztcprep.com

“Chamber of Secrets,” said Ron.
“Chamber — what?” said Harry, coming to an
unsteady halt before them.
“It was Ron, all Ron’s idea!” said Hermione
breathlessly. “Wasn’t it absolutely brilliant? There we
were, after you left, and I said to Ron, even if we find
the other one, how are we going to get rid of it? We
still hadn’t got rid of the cup! And then he thought of
it! The basilisk!”
“What the — ?”
“Something to get rid of Horcruxes,” said Ron simply.
Harry’s eyes dropped to the objects clutched in Ron
and Hermione’s arms: great curved fangs, torn, he
now realized, from the skull of a dead basilisk.
“But how did you get in there?” he asked, staring
from the fangs to Ron. “You need to speak
Parseltongue!”
“He did!” whispered Hermione. “Show him, Ron!”
Ron made a horrible strangled hissing noise.
“It’s what you did to open the locket,” he told Harry

www.ztcprep.com

apologetically. “I had to have a few goes to get it right,
but,” he shrugged modestly, “we got there in the end.”
“He was amazing. ” said Hermione. “Amazing!”
P a g e | 704
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“So …” Harry was struggling to keep up. “So …”
“So we’re another Horcrux down,” said Ron, and from
under his jacket he pulled the mangled remains of
Hufflepuff’s cup. “Hermione stabbed it. Thought she
should. She hasn’t had the pleasure yet.”
“Genius!” yelled Harry.
“It was nothing,” said Ron, though he looked
delighted with himself. “So what’s new with you?”
As he said it, there was an explosion from overhead:
All three of them looked up as dust fell from the
ceiling and they heard a distant scream.
“I know what the diadem looks like, and I know where
it is,” said Harry, talking fast. “He hid it exactly where
I hid my old Potions book, where everyone’s been
hiding stuff for centuries. He thought he was the only

www.ztcprep.com

one to find it. Come on.”
As the walls trembled again, he led the other two back
through the concealed entrance and down the
staircase into the Room of Requirement. It was empty
except for three women: Ginny, Tonks, and an elderly
witch wearing a moth-eaten hat, whom Harry
recognized immediately as Neville’s grandmother.
“Ah, Potter,” she said crisply as if she had been
waiting for him. “You can tell us what’s going on.”
“Is everyone okay?” said Ginny and Tonks together.
“ ’S far as we know,” said Harry. “Are there still people
in the passage to the Hog’s Head?”
He knew that the room would not be able to
transform while there were still users inside it.
P a g e | 705
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“I was the last to come through,” said Mrs.
Longbottom. “I sealed it, I think it unwise to leave it
open now Aberforth has left his pub. Have you seen
my grandson?”

www.ztcprep.com

“He’s fighting,” said Harry.
“Naturally,” said the old lady proudly. “Excuse me, I
must go and assist him.”
With surprising speed she trotted off toward the stone
steps.
Harry looked at Tonks.
“I thought you were supposed to be with Teddy at
your mother’s?”
“I couldn’t stand not knowing —” Tonks looked
anguished. “She’ll look after him — have you seen
Remus?”
“He was planning to lead a group of fighters into the
grounds —”
Without another word, Tonks sped off.
“Ginny,” said Harry, “I’m sorry, but we need you to
leave too. Just for a bit. Then you can come back in.”
Ginny looked simply delighted to leave her sanctuary.
“And then you can come back in!” he shouted after
her as she ran up the steps after Tonks. “You’ve got to
come back in!”

www.ztcprep.com

“Hang on a moment!” said Ron sharply. “We’ve
forgotten someone!”
P a g e | 706
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“Who?” asked Hermione.
“The house-elves, they’ll all be down in the kitchen,
won’t they?”
“You mean we ought to get them fighting?” asked
Harry.
“No,” said Ron seriously, “I mean we should tell them
to get out. We don’t want any more Dobbies, do we?
We can’t order them to die for us —”
There was a clatter as the basilisk fangs cascaded out
of Hermione’s arms. Running at Ron, she flung them
around his neck and kissed him full on the mouth.
Ron threw away the fangs and broomstick he was
holding and responded with such enthusiasm that he
lifted Hermione off her feet.
“Is this the moment?” Harry asked weakly, and when
nothing happened except that Ron and Hermione

www.ztcprep.com

gripped each other still more firmly and swayed on
the spot, he raised his voice. “OI! There’s a war going
on here!”
Ron and Hermione broke apart, their arms still
around each other.
“I know, mate,” said Ron, who looked as though he
had recently been hit on the back of the head with a
Bludger, “so it’s now or never, isn’t it?”
“Never mind that, what about the Horcrux?” Harry
shouted. “D’you think you could just — just hold it in
until we’ve got the diadem?”
“Yeah — right — sorry —” said Ron, and he and
Hermione set about gathering up fangs, both pink in
the face.
P a g e | 707
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
It was clear, as the three of them stepped back into the corridor upstairs, that
in the minutes that they
had spent in the Room of Requirement the situation
within the castle had deteriorated severely: The walls
and ceiling were shaking worse than ever; dust filled

www.ztcprep.com

the air, and through the nearest window, Harry saw
bursts of green and red light so close to the foot of the
castle that he knew the Death Eaters must be very
near to entering the place. Looking down, Harry saw
Grawp the giant meandering past, swinging what
looked like a stone gargoyle torn from the roof and
roaring his displeasure.
“Let’s hope he steps on some of them!” said Ron as
more screams echoed from close by.
“As long as it’s not any of our lot!” said a voice: Harry
turned and saw Ginny and Tonks, both with their
wands drawn at the next window, which was missing
several panes. Even as he watched, Ginny sent a wellaimed jinx into a crowd of fighters below.
“Good girl!” roared a figure running through the dust
toward them, and Harry saw Aberforth again, his gray
hair flying as he led a small group of students past.
“They look like they might be breaching the north
battlements, they’ve brought giants of their own!”
“Have you seen Remus?” Tonks called after him.

www.ztcprep.com

“He was dueling Dolohov,” shouted Aberforth,
“haven’t seen him since!
“Tonks,” said Ginny, “Tonks, I’m sure he’s okay —”
But Tonks had run off into the dust after Aberforth.
Ginny turned, helpless, to Harry, Ron, and Hermione.
P a g e | 708
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“They’ll be all right,” said Harry, though he knew they were empty words.
“Ginny, we’ll be back in a moment,
just keep out of the way, keep safe — come on!” he
said to Ron and Hermione, and they ran back to the
stretch of wall beyond which the Room of
Requirement was waiting to do the bidding of the next
entrant.
I need the place where everything is hidden, Harry
begged of it inside his head, and the door materialized
on their third run past.
The furor of the battle died the moment they crossed
the threshold and closed the door behind them: All
was silent. They were in a place the size of a cathedral
with the appearance of a city, its towering walls built

www.ztcprep.com

of objects hidden by thousands of long-gone students.
“And he never realized anyone could get in?” said
Ron, his voice echoing in the silence.
“He thought he was the only one,” said Harry. “Too
bad for him I’ve had to hide stuff in my time … this
way,” he added, “I think it’s down here. …”
He passed the stuffed troll and the Vanishing Cabinet
Draco Malfoy had mended last year with such
disastrous consequences, then hesitated, looking up
and down aisles of junk; he could not remember
where to go next. …
“Accio Diadem!” cried Hermione in desperation, but
nothing flew through the air toward them. It seemed
that, like the vault at Gringotts, the room would not
yield its hidden objects that easily.
“Let’s split up,” Harry told the other two. “Look for a
stone bust of an old man wearing a wig and a tiara!
P a g e | 709
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
It’s standing on a cupboard and it’s definitely

www.ztcprep.com

somewhere near here. …”
They sped off up adjacent aisles; Harry could hear the
others’ footsteps echoing through the towering piles of
junk, of bottles, hats, crates, chairs, books, weapons,
broomsticks, bats. …
“Somewhere near here,” Harry muttered to himself.
“Somewhere … somewhere …”
Deeper and deeper into the labyrinth he went, looking
for objects he recognized from his one previous trip
into the room. His breath was loud in his ears, and
then his very soul seemed to shiver: There it was,
right ahead, the blistered old cupboard in which he
had hidden his old Potions book, and on top of it, the
pockmarked stone warlock wearing a dusty old wig
and what looked like an ancient, discolored tiara.
He had already stretched out his hand, though he
remained ten feet away, when a voice behind him
said, “Hold it, Potter.”
He skidded to a halt and turned around. Crabbe and
Goyle were standing behind him, shoulder to

www.ztcprep.com

shoulder, wands pointing right at Harry. Through the
small space between their jeering faces he saw Draco
Malfoy.
“That’s my wand you’re holding, Potter,” said Malfoy,
pointing his own through the gap between Crabbe
and Goyle.
“Not anymore,” panted Harry, tightening his grip on
the hawthorn wand. “Winners, keepers, Malfoy. Who’s
lent you theirs?”
“My mother,” said Draco.
P a g e | 710
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
Harry laughed, though there was nothing very
humorous about the situation. He could not hear Ron
or Hermione anymore. They seemed to have run out
of earshot, searching for the diadem.
“So how come you three aren’t with Voldemort?”
asked Harry.
“We’re gonna be rewarded,” said Crabbe: His voice
was surprisingly soft for such an enormous person;

www.ztcprep.com

Harry had hardly ever heard him speak before.
Crabbe was smiling like a small child promised a
large bag of sweets. “We ’ung back, Potter. We decided
not to go. Decided to bring you to ’im.”
“Good plan,” said Harry in mock admiration. He could
not believe that he was this close, and was going to be
thwarted by Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle. He began
edging slowly backward toward the place where the
Horcrux sat lopsided upon the bust. If he could just
get his hands on it before the fight broke out …
“So how did you get in here?” he asked, trying to
distract them.
“I virtually lived in the Room of Hidden Things all last
year,” said Malfoy, his voice brittle. “I know how to get
in.”
“We was hiding in the corridor outside,” grunted
Goyle. “We can do Diss-lusion Charms now! And
then,” his face split into a gormless grin, “you turned
up right in front of us and said you was looking for a
die-dum! What’s a die-dum?”

www.ztcprep.com

“Harry?” Ron’s voice echoed suddenly from the other
side of the wall to Harry’s right. “Are you talking to
someone?”
P a g e | 711
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
With a whiplike movement, Crabbe pointed his wand
at the fifty-foot mountain of old furniture, of broken
trunks, of old books and robes and unidentifiable
junk, and shouted, “Descendo!”
The wall began to totter, then the top third crumbled
into the aisle next door where Ron stood.
“Ron!” Harry bellowed, as somewhere out of sight
Hermione screamed, and Harry heard innumerable
objects crashing to the floor on the other side of the
destabilized wall: He pointed his wand at the rampart,
cried, “Finite!” and it steadied.
“No!” shouted Malfoy, staying Crabbe’s arm as the
latter made to repeat his spell. “If you wreck the room
you might bury this diadem thing!”
“What’s that matter?” said Crabbe, tugging himself

www.ztcprep.com

free. “It’s Potter the Dark Lord wants, who cares
about a die-dum?”
“Potter came in here to get it,” said Malfoy with illdisguised impatience at the slow-wittedness of his
colleagues, “so that must mean —”
“ ‘Must mean’?” Crabbe turned on Malfoy with
undisguised ferocity. “Who cares what you think? I
don’t take your orders no more, Draco. You an’ your
dad are finished.”
“Harry?” shouted Ron again, from the other side of
the junk wall. “What’s going on?”
“Harry?” mimicked Crabbe. “What’s going — no,
Potter! Crucio!”
Harry had lunged for the tiara; Crabbe’s curse missed
him but hit the stone bust, which flew into the air;
P a g e | 712
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
the diadem soared upward and then dropped out of
sight in the mass of objects on which the bust had
rested.

www.ztcprep.com

“STOP!” Malfoy shouted at Crabbe, his voice echoing
through the enormous room. “The Dark Lord wants
him alive —”
“So? I’m not killing him, am I?” yelled Crabbe,
throwing off Malfoy’s restraining arm. “But if I can, I
will, the Dark Lord wants him dead anyway, what’s
the diff — ?”
A jet of scarlet light shot past Harry by inches:
Hermione had run around the corner behind him and
sent a Stunning Spell straight at Crabbe’s head. It
only missed because Malfoy pulled him out of the
way.
“It’s that Mudblood! Avada Kedavra!”
Harry saw Hermione dive aside, and his fury that
Crabbe had aimed to kill wiped all else from his mind.
He shot a Stunning Spell at Crabbe, who lurched out
of the way, knocking Malfoy’s wand out of his hand; it
rolled out of sight beneath a mountain of broken
furniture and boxes.
“Don’t kill him! DON’T KILL HIM!” Malfoy yelled at

www.ztcprep.com

Crabbe and Goyle, who were both aiming at Harry:
Their split second’s hesitation was all Harry needed.
“Expelliarmus!”
Goyle’s wand flew out of his hand and disappeared
into the bulwark of objects beside him; Goyle leapt
foolishly on the spot, trying to retrieve it; Malfoy
jumped out of range of Hermione’s second Stunning
Spell, and Ron, appearing suddenly at the end of the
P a g e | 713
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
aisle, shot a full Body-Bind Curse at Crabbe, which narrowly missed.
Crabbe wheeled around and screamed, “Avada
Kedavra!” again. Ron leapt out of sight to avoid the jet
of green light. The wandless Malfoy cowered behind a
three-legged wardrobe as Hermione charged toward
them, hitting Goyle with a Stunning Spell as she
came.
“It’s somewhere here!” Harry yelled at her, pointing at
the pile of junk into which the old tiara had fallen.
“Look for it while I go and help R —”

www.ztcprep.com

“HARRY!” she screamed.
A roaring, billowing noise behind him gave him a
moment’s warning. He turned and saw both Ron and
Crabbe running as hard as they could up the aisle
toward them.
“Like it hot, scum?” roared Crabbe as he ran.
But he seemed to have no control over what he had
done. Flames of abnormal size were pursuing them,
licking up the sides of the junk bulwarks, which were
crumbling to soot at their touch.
“Aguamenti!” Harry bawled, but the jet of water that
soared from the tip of his wand evaporated in the air.
“RUN!”
Malfoy grabbed the Stunned Goyle and dragged him
along; Crabbe outstripped all of them, now looking
terrified; Harry, Ron, and Hermione pelted along in
his wake, and the fire pursued them. It was not
normal fire; Crabbe had used a curse of which Harry
had no knowledge: As they turned a corner the flames
P a g e | 714

www.ztcprep.com

Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
chased them as though they were alive, sentient,
intent upon killing them. Now the fire was mutating,
forming a gigantic pack of fiery beasts: Flaming
serpents, chimaeras, and dragons rose and fell and
rose again, and the detritus of centuries on which
they were feeding was thrown up in the air into their
fanged mouths, tossed high on clawed feet, before
being consumed by the inferno.
Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle had vanished from view:
Harry, Ron, and Hermione stopped dead; the fiery
monsters were circling them, drawing closer and
closer, claws and horns and tails lashed, and the heat
was solid as a wall around them.
“What can we do?” Hermione screamed over the
deafening roars of the fire. “What can we do?”
“Here!”
Harry seized a pair of heavy-looking broomsticks from
the nearest pile of junk and threw one to Ron, who
pulled Hermione onto it behind him. Harry swung his

www.ztcprep.com

leg over the second broom and, with hard kicks to the
ground, they soared up into the air, missing by feet
the horned beak of a flaming raptor that snapped its
jaws at them. The smoke and heat were becoming
overwhelming: Below them the cursed fire was
consuming the contraband of generations of hunted
students, the guilty outcomes of a thousand banned
experiments, the secrets of the countless souls who
had sought refuge in the room. Harry could not see a
trace of Malfoy, Crabbe, or Goyle anywhere: He
swooped as low as he dared over the marauding
monsters of flame to try to find them, but there was
nothing but fire: What a terrible way to die. … He had
never wanted this. …
P a g e | 715
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“Harry, let’s get out, let’s get out!” bellowed Ron, though it was impossible
to see where the door was
through the black smoke.
And then Harry heard a thin, piteous human scream
from amidst the terrible commotion, the thunder of

www.ztcprep.com

devouring flame.
“It’s — too — dangerous — !” Ron yelled, but Harry
wheeled in the air. His glasses giving his eyes some
small protection from the smoke, he raked the
firestorm below, seeking a sign of life, a limb or a face
that was not yet charred like wood. …
And he saw them: Malfoy with his arms around the
unconscious Goyle, the pair of them perched on a
fragile tower of charred desks, and Harry dived.
Malfoy saw him coming and raised one arm, but even
as Harry grasped it he knew at once that it was no
good: Goyle was too heavy and Malfoy’s hand, covered
in sweat, slid instantly out of Harry’s —
“IF WE DIE FOR THEM, I’LL KILL YOU, HARRY!”
roared Ron’s voice, and, as a great flaming chimaera
bore down upon them, he and Hermione dragged
Goyle onto their broom and rose, rolling and pitching,
into the air once more as Malfoy clambered up behind
Harry.
“The door, get to the door, the door!” screamed Malfoy

www.ztcprep.com

in Harry’s ear, and Harry sped up, following Ron,
Hermione, and Goyle through the billowing black
smoke, hardly able to breathe: and all around them
the last few objects unburned by the devouring flames
were flung into the air, as the creatures of the cursed
fire cast them high in celebration: cups and shields, a
sparkling necklace, and an old, discolored tiara —
P a g e | 716
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“What are you doing, what are you doing, the door’s that way!” screamed
Malfoy, but Harry made a
hairpin swerve and dived. The diadem seemed to fall
in slow motion, turning and glittering as it dropped
toward the maw of a yawning serpent, and then he
had it, caught it around his wrist —
Harry swerved again as the serpent lunged at him; he
soared upward and straight toward the place where,
he prayed, the door stood open: Ron, Hermione, and
Goyle had vanished; Malfoy was screaming and
holding Harry so tightly it hurt. Then, through the
smoke, Harry saw a rectangular patch on the wall

www.ztcprep.com

and steered the broom at it, and moments later clean
air filled his lungs and they collided with the wall in
the corridor beyond.
Malfoy fell off the broom and lay facedown, gasping,
coughing, and retching. Harry rolled over and sat up:
The door to the Room of Requirement had vanished,
and Ron and Hermione sat panting on the floor beside
Goyle, who was still unconscious.
“C-Crabbe,” choked Malfoy as soon as he could
speak. “C-Crabbe …”
“He’s dead,” said Ron harshly.
There was silence, apart from panting and coughing.
Then a number of huge bangs shook the castle, and a
great cavalcade of transparent figures galloped past
on horses, their heads screaming with bloodlust
under their arms. Harry staggered to his feet when
the Headless Hunt had passed and looked around:
The battle was still going on all around him. He could
hear more screams than those of the retreating
ghosts. Panic flared within him.

www.ztcprep.com

P a g e | 717
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“Where’s Ginny?” he said sharply. “She was here. She was supposed to be
going back into the Room of
Requirement.”
“Blimey, d’you reckon it’ll still work after that fire?”
asked Ron, but he too got to his feet, rubbing his
chest and looking left and right. “Shall we split up
and look — ?”
“No,” said Hermione, getting to her feet too. Malfoy
and Goyle remained slumped hopelessly on the
corridor floor; neither of them had wands. “Let’s stick
together. I say we go — Harry, what’s that on your
arm?”
“What? Oh yeah —”
He pulled the diadem from his wrist and held it up. It
was still hot, blackened with soot, but as he looked at
it closely he was just able to make out the tiny words
etched upon it: WIT BEYOND MEASURE IS MAN’S
GREATEST TREASURE.
A bloodlike substance, dark and tarry, seemed to be

www.ztcprep.com

leaking from the diadem. Suddenly Harry felt the
thing vibrate violently, then break apart in his hands,
and as it did so, he thought he heard the faintest,
most distant scream of pain, echoing not from the
grounds or the castle, but from the thing that had
just fragmented in his fingers.
“It must have been Fiendfyre!” whimpered Hermione,
her eyes on the broken pieces.
“Sorry?”
“Fiendfyre — cursed fire — it’s one of the substances
that destroy Horcruxes, but I would never, ever have
P a g e | 718
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
dared use it, it’s so dangerous — how did Crabbe
know how to — ?”
“Must’ve learned from the Carrows,” said Harry
grimly.
“Shame he wasn’t concentrating when they
mentioned how to stop it, really,” said Ron, whose
hair, like Hermione’s, was singed, and whose face was

www.ztcprep.com

blackened. “If he hadn’t tried to kill us all, I’d be quite
sorry he was dead.”
“But don’t you realize?” whispered Hermione. “This
means, if we can just get the snake —”
But she broke off as yells and shouts and the
unmistakable noises of dueling filled the corridor.
Harry looked around and his heart seemed to fail:
Death Eaters had penetrated Hogwarts. Fred and
Percy had just backed into view, both of them dueling
masked and hooded men.
Harry, Ron, and Hermione ran forward to help: Jets of
light flew in every direction and the man dueling
Percy backed off, fast: Then his hood slipped and they
saw a high forehead and streaked hair —
“Hello, Minister!” bellowed Percy, sending a neat jinx
straight at Thicknesse, who dropped his wand and
clawed at the front of his robes, apparently in awful
discomfort. “Did I mention I’m resigning?”
“You’re joking, Perce!” shouted Fred as the Death
Eater he was battling collapsed under the weight of

www.ztcprep.com

three separate Stunning Spells. Thicknesse had fallen
to the ground with tiny spikes erupting all over him;
he seemed to be turning into some form of sea urchin.
Fred looked at Percy with glee.
P a g e | 719
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“You actually are joking, Perce. … I don’t think I’ve heard you joke since
you were —”
The air exploded. They had been grouped together,
Harry, Ron, Hermione, Fred, and Percy, the two
Death Eaters at their feet, one Stunned, the other
Transfigured; and in that fragment of a moment,
when danger seemed temporarily at bay, the world
was rent apart. Harry felt himself flying through the
air, and all he could do was hold as tightly as possible
to that thin stick of wood that was his one and only
weapon, and shield his head in his arms: He heard
the screams and yells of his companions without a
hope of knowing what had happened to them —
And then the world resolved itself into pain and
semidarkness: He was half buried in the wreckage of

www.ztcprep.com

a corridor that had been subjected to a terrible
attack. Cold air told him that the side of the castle
had been blown away, and hot stickiness on his
cheek told him that he was bleeding copiously. Then
he heard a terrible cry that pulled at his insides, that
expressed agony of a kind neither flame nor curse
could cause, and he stood up, swaying, more
frightened than he had been that day, more
frightened, perhaps, than he had been in his life. …
And Hermione was struggling to her feet in the
wreckage, and three redheaded men were grouped on
the ground where the wall had blasted apart. Harry
grabbed Hermione’s hand as they staggered and
stumbled over stone and wood.
“No — no — no!” someone was shouting. “No! Fred!
No!”
And Percy was shaking his brother, and Ron was
kneeling beside them, and Fred’s eyes stared without
P a g e | 720
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling

www.ztcprep.com

seeing, the ghost of his last laugh still etched upon his face.
P a g e | 721
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling

THE ELDER WAND
The world had ended, so why had the battle not
ceased, the castle fallen silent in horror, and every
combatant laid down their arms? Harry’s mind was in
free fall, spinning out of control, unable to grasp the
impossibility, because Fred Weasley could not be
dead, the evidence of all his senses must be lying —
And then a body fell past the hole blown into the side
of the school, and curses flew in at them from the
darkness, hitting the wall behind their heads.
“Get down!” Harry shouted, as more curses flew

www.ztcprep.com

through the night: He and Ron had both grabbed
Hermione and pulled her to the floor, but Percy lay
across Fred’s body, shielding it from further harm,
and when Harry shouted, “Percy, come on, we’ve got
to move!” he shook his head.
“Percy!” Harry saw tear tracks streaking the grime
coating Ron’s face as he seized his elder brother’s
shoulders and pulled, but Percy would not budge.
P a g e | 722
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“Percy, you can’t do anything for him! We’re going to
—”
Hermione screamed, and Harry, turning, did not need
to ask why. A monstrous spider the size of a small car
was trying to climb through the huge hole in the wall:
One of Aragog’s descendants had joined the fight.
Ron and Harry shouted together; their spells collided
and the monster was blown backward, its legs jerking
horribly, and vanished into the darkness.
“It brought friends!” Harry called to the others,

www.ztcprep.com

glancing over the edge of the castle through the hole
in the wall the curses had blasted: More giant spiders
were climbing the side of the building, liberated from
the Forbidden Forest, into which the Death Eaters
must have penetrated. Harry fired Stunning Spells
down upon them, knocking the lead monster into its
fellows, so that they rolled back down the building
and out of sight. Then more curses came soaring over
Harry’s head, so close he felt the force of them blow
his hair.
“Let’s move, NOW!”
Pushing Hermione ahead of him with Ron, Harry
stooped to seize Fred’s body under the armpits. Percy,
realizing what Harry was trying to do, stopped
clinging to the body and helped; together, crouching
low to avoid the curses flying at them from the
grounds, they hauled Fred out of the way.
“Here,” said Harry, and they placed him in a niche
where a suit of armor had stood earlier. He could not
bear to look at Fred a second longer than he had to,

www.ztcprep.com

and after making sure that the body was well hidden,
he took off after Ron and Hermione. Malfoy and Goyle
had vanished, but at the end of the corridor, which
P a g e | 723
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
was now full of dust and falling masonry, glass long gone from the
windows, he saw many people running
backward and forward, whether friends or foes he
could not tell. Rounding the corner, Percy let out a
bull-like roar: “ROOKWOOD!” and sprinted off in the
direction of a tall man, who was pursuing a couple of
students.
“Harry, in here!” Hermione screamed.
She had pulled Ron behind a tapestry: They seemed
to be wrestling together, and for one mad second
Harry thought that they were embracing again; then
he saw that Hermione was trying to restrain Ron, to
stop him running after Percy.
“Listen to me — LISTEN, RON!”
“I wanna help — I wanna kill Death Eaters —”
His face was contorted, smeared with dust and

www.ztcprep.com

smoke, and he was shaking with rage and grief.
“Ron, we’re the only ones who can end it! Please —
Ron — we need the snake, we’ve got to kill the snake!”
said Hermione.
But Harry knew how Ron felt: Pursuing another
Horcrux could not bring the satisfaction of revenge;
he too wanted to fight, to punish them, the people
who had killed Fred, and he wanted to find the other
Weasleys, and above all make sure, make quite sure,
that Ginny was not — but he could not permit that
idea to form in his mind —
“We will fight!” Hermione said. “We’ll have to, to reach
the snake! But let’s not lose sight now of what we’re
supposed to be d-doing! We’re the only ones who can
end it!”
P a g e | 724
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
She was crying too, and she wiped her face on her
torn and singed sleeve as she spoke, but she took
great heaving breaths to calm herself as, still keeping

www.ztcprep.com

a tight hold on Ron, she turned to Harry.
“You need to find out where Voldemort is, because
he’ll have the snake with him, won’t he? Do it, Harry
— look inside him!”
Why was it so easy? Because his scar had been
burning for hours, yearning to show him Voldemort’s
thoughts? He closed his eyes on her command, and at
once, the screams and the bangs and all the
discordant sounds of the battle were drowned until
they became distant, as though he stood far, far away
from them. …
He was standing in the middle of a desolate but
strangely familiar room, with peeling paper on the
walls and all the windows boarded except for one. The
sounds of the assault on the castle were muffled and
distant. The single unblocked window revealed
distant bursts of light where the castle stood, but
inside the room it was dark except for a solitary oil
lamp.
He was rolling his wand between his fingers, watching

www.ztcprep.com

it, his thoughts on the room in the castle, the secret
room only he had ever found, the room, like the
Chamber, that you had to be clever and cunning and
inquisitive to discover. … He was confident that the
boy would not find the diadem … although
Dumbledore’s puppet had come much farther than he
had ever expected … too far. …
“My Lord,” said a voice, desperate and cracked. He
turned: There was Lucius Malfoy sitting in the
darkest corner, ragged and still bearing the marks of
the punishment he had received after the boy’s last
P a g e | 725
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
escape. One of his eyes remained closed and puffy.
“My Lord … please … my son …”
“If your son is dead, Lucius, it is not my fault. He did
not come and join me, like the rest of the Slytherins.
Perhaps he has decided to befriend Harry Potter?”
“No — never,” whispered Malfoy.
“You must hope not.”

www.ztcprep.com

“Aren’t — aren’t you afraid, my Lord, that Potter
might die at another hand but yours?” asked Malfoy,
his voice shaking. “Wouldn’t it be … forgive me …
more prudent to call off this battle, enter the castle,
and seek him y-yourself?”
“Do not pretend, Lucius. You wish the battle to cease
so that you can discover what has happened to your
son. And I do not need to seek Potter. Before the night
is out, Potter will have come to find me.”
Voldemort dropped his gaze once more to the wand in
his fingers. It troubled him … and those things that
troubled Lord Voldemort needed to be rearranged. …
“Go and fetch Snape.”
“Snape, m-my Lord?”
“Snape. Now. I need him. There is a — service — I
require from him. Go.”
Frightened, stumbling a little through the gloom,
Lucius left the room. Voldemort continued to stand
there, twirling the wand between his fingers, staring
at it.

www.ztcprep.com

P a g e | 726
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“It is the only way, Nagini,” he whispered, and he
looked around, and there was the great thick snake,
now suspended in midair, twisting gracefully within
the enchanted, protected space he had made for her,
a starry, transparent sphere somewhere between
glittering cage and tank.
With a gasp, Harry pulled back and opened his eyes;
at the same moment his ears were assaulted with the
screeches and cries, the smashes and bangs of battle.
“He’s in the Shrieking Shack. The snake’s with him,
it’s got some sort of magical protection around it. He’s
just sent Lucius Malfoy to find Snape.”
“Voldemort’s sitting in the Shrieking Shack?” said
Hermione, outraged. “He’s not — he’s not even
fighting?”
“He doesn’t think he needs to fight,” said Harry. “He
thinks I’m going to go to him.”
“But why?”

www.ztcprep.com

“He knows I’m after Horcruxes — he’s keeping Nagini
close beside him — obviously I’m going to have to go
to him to get near the thing —”
“Right,” said Ron, squaring his shoulders. “So you
can’t go, that’s what he wants, what he’s expecting.
You stay here and look after Hermione, and I’ll go and
get it —”
Harry cut across Ron.
“You two stay here, I’ll go under the Cloak and I’ll be
back as soon as I —”
P a g e | 727
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“No,” said Hermione, “it makes much more sense if I take the Cloak and
—”
“Don’t even think about it,” Ron snarled at her.
Before Hermione could get farther than “Ron, I’m just
as capable —” the tapestry at the top of the staircase
on which they stood was ripped open.
“POTTER!”
Two masked Death Eaters stood there, but even
before their wands were fully raised, Hermione

www.ztcprep.com

shouted, “Glisseo!”
The stairs beneath their feet flattened into a chute
and she, Harry, and Ron hurtled down it, unable to
control their speed but so fast that the Death Eaters’
Stunning Spells flew far over their heads. They shot
through the concealing tapestry at the bottom and
spun onto the floor, hitting the opposite wall.
“Duro!” cried Hermione, pointing her wand at the
tapestry, and there were two loud, sickening crunches
as the tapestry turned to stone and the Death Eaters
pursuing them crumpled against it.
“Get back!” shouted Ron, and he, Harry, and
Hermione flattened themselves against a door as a
herd of galloping desks thundered past, shepherded
by a sprinting Professor McGonagall. She appeared
not to notice them: Her hair had come down and
there was a gash on her cheek. As she turned the
corner, they heard her scream, “CHARGE!”
“Harry, you get the Cloak on,” said Hermione. “Never
mind us —”

www.ztcprep.com

P a g e | 728
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
But he threw it over all three of them; large though they were, he doubted
anyone would see their
disembodied feet through the dust that clogged the
air, the falling stone, the shimmer of spells.
They ran down the next staircase and found
themselves in a corridor full of duelers. The portraits
on either side of the fighters were crammed with
figures screaming advice and encouragement, while
Death Eaters, both masked and unmasked, dueled
students and teachers. Dean had won himself a
wand, for he was face-to-face with Dolohov, Parvati
with Travers. Harry, Ron, and Hermione raised their
wands at once, ready to strike, but the duelers were
weaving and darting around so much that there was a
strong likelihood of hurting one of their own side if
they cast curses. Even as they stood braced, looking
for the opportunity to act, there came a great
“Wheeeeeeeeeeee!” and, looking up, Harry saw Peeves
zooming over them, dropping Snargaluff pods down

www.ztcprep.com

onto the Death Eaters, whose heads were suddenly
engulfed in wriggling green tubers like fat worms.
“Argh!”
A fistful of tubers had hit the Cloak over Ron’s head;
the slimy green roots were suspended improbably in
midair as Ron tried to shake them loose.
“Someone’s invisible there!” shouted a masked Death
Eater, pointing.
Dean made the most of the Death Eater’s momentary
distraction, knocking him out with a Stunning Spell;
Dolohov attempted to retaliate and Parvati shot a
Body-Bind Curse at him.
“LET’S GO!” Harry yelled, and he, Ron, and Hermione
gathered the Cloak tightly around themselves and
P a g e | 729
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
pelted, heads down, through the midst of the fighters, slipping a little in
pools of Snargaluff juice, toward the
top of the marble staircase into the entrance hall.
“I’m Draco Malfoy, I’m Draco, I’m on your side!”
Draco was on the upper landing, pleading with

www.ztcprep.com

another masked Death Eater. Harry Stunned the
Death Eater as they passed: Malfoy looked around,
beaming, for his savior, and Ron punched him from
under the Cloak. Malfoy fell backward on top of the
Death Eater, his mouth bleeding, utterly bemused.
“And that’s the second time we’ve saved your life
tonight, you two-faced bastard!” Ron yelled.
There were more duelers all over the stairs and in the
hall, Death Eaters everywhere Harry looked: Yaxley,
close to the front doors, in combat with Flitwick, a
masked Death Eater dueling Kingsley right beside
them. Students ran in every direction, some carrying
or dragging injured friends. Harry directed a Stunning
Spell toward the masked Death Eater; it missed but
nearly hit Neville, who had emerged from nowhere
brandishing armfuls of Venomous Tentacula, which
looped itself happily around the nearest Death Eater
and began reeling him in.
Harry, Ron, and Hermione sped down the marble
staircase: Glass shattered to their left, and the

www.ztcprep.com

Slytherin hourglass that had recorded House points
spilled its emeralds everywhere, so that people slipped
and staggered as they ran. Two bodies fell from the
balcony overhead as they reached the ground, and a
gray blur that Harry took for an animal sped fourlegged across the hall to sink its teeth into one of the
fallen.
P a g e | 730
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“NO!” shrieked Hermione, and with a deafening blast from her wand,
Fenrir Greyback was thrown
backward from the feebly stirring body of Lavender
Brown. He hit the marble banisters and struggled to
return to his feet. Then, with a bright white flash and
a crack, a crystal ball fell on top of his head, and he
crumpled to the ground and did not move.
“I have more!” shrieked Professor Trelawney from over
the banisters. “More for any who want them! Here —”
And with a movement like a tennis serve, she heaved
another enormous crystal sphere from her bag, waved
her wand through the air, and caused the ball to

www.ztcprep.com

speed across the hall and smash through a window.
At the same moment, the heavy wooden front doors
burst open, and more of the gigantic spiders forced
their way into the entrance hall.
Screams of terror rent the air: The fighters scattered,
Death Eaters and Hogwartians alike, and red and
green jets of light flew into the midst of the oncoming
monsters, which shuddered and reared, more
terrifying than ever.
“How do we get out?” yelled Ron over all the
screaming, but before either Harry or Hermione could
answer they were bowled aside: Hagrid had come
thundering down the stairs, brandishing his flowery
pink umbrella.
“Don’t hurt ’em, don’t hurt ’em!” he yelled.
“HAGRID, NO!”
Harry forgot everything else: He sprinted out from
under the Cloak, running bent double to avoid the
curses illuminating the whole hall.
P a g e | 731

www.ztcprep.com

Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“HAGRID, COME BACK!”
But he was not even halfway to Hagrid when he saw it
happen: Hagrid vanished amongst the spiders, and
with a great scurrying, a foul swarming movement,
they retreated under the onslaught of spells, Hagrid
buried in their midst.
“HAGRID!”
Harry heard someone calling his own name, whether
friend or foe he did not care: He was sprinting down
the front steps into the dark grounds, and the spiders
were swarming away with their prey, and he could see
nothing of Hagrid at all.
“HAGRID!”
He thought he could make out an enormous arm
waving from the midst of the spider swarm, but as he
made to chase after them, his way was impeded by a
monumental foot, which swung down out of the
darkness and made the ground on which he stood
shudder. He looked up: A giant stood before him,

www.ztcprep.com

twenty feet high, its head hidden in shadow, nothing
but its treelike, hairy shins illuminated by light from
the castle doors. With one brutal, fluid movement, it
smashed a massive fist through an upper window,
and glass rained down upon Harry, forcing him back
under the shelter of the doorway.
“Oh my — !” shrieked Hermione, as she and Ron
caught up with Harry and gazed upward at the giant
now trying to seize people through the window above.
“DON’T!” Ron yelled, grabbing Hermione’s hand as
she raised her wand. “Stun him and he’ll crush half
the castle —”
P a g e | 732
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“HAGGER?”
Grawp came lurching around the corner of the castle;
only now did Harry realize that Grawp was, indeed,
an undersized giant. The gargantuan monster trying
to crush people on the upper floors looked around
and let out a roar. The stone steps trembled as he

www.ztcprep.com

stomped toward his smaller kin, and Grawp’s
lopsided mouth fell open, showing yellow, half-bricksized teeth; and then they launched themselves at
each other with the savagery of lions.
“RUN!” Harry roared; the night was full of hideous
yells and blows as the giants wrestled, and he seized
Hermione’s hand and tore down the steps into the
grounds, Ron bringing up the rear. Harry had not lost
hope of finding and saving Hagrid; he ran so fast that
they were halfway toward the forest before they were
brought up short again.
The air around them had frozen: Harry’s breath
caught and solidified in his chest. Shapes moved out
in the darkness, swirling figures of concentrated
blackness, moving in a great wave toward the castle,
their faces hooded and their breath rattling. …
Ron and Hermione closed in beside him as the
sounds of fighting behind them grew suddenly muted,
deadened, because a silence only dementors could
bring was falling thickly through the night, and Fred

www.ztcprep.com

was gone, and Hagrid was surely dying or already
dead. …
“Come on, Harry!” said Hermione’s voice from a very
long way away. “Patronuses, Harry, come on!”
He raised his wand, but a dull hopelessness was
spreading through him: How many more lay dead
P a g e | 733
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
that he did not yet know about; he felt as though his soul had already half
left his body. …
“HARRY, COME ON!” screamed Hermione.
A hundred dementors were advancing, gliding toward
them, sucking their way closer to Harry’s despair,
which was like a promise of a feast. …
He saw Ron’s silver terrier burst into the air, flicker
feebly, and expire; he saw Hermione’s otter twist in
midair and fade; and his own wand trembled in his
hand, and he almost welcomed the oncoming
oblivion, the promise of nothing, of no feeling. …
And then a silver hare, a boar, and a fox soared past
Harry, Ron, and Hermione’s heads: The dementors

www.ztcprep.com

fell back before the creatures’ approach. Three more
people had arrived out of the darkness to stand
beside them, their wands outstretched, continuing to
cast their Patronuses: Luna, Ernie, and Seamus.
“That’s right,” said Luna encouragingly, as if they
were back in the Room of Requirement and this was
simply spell practice for the D.A. “That’s right, Harry
… come on, think of something happy. …”
“Something happy?” he said, his voice cracked.
“We’re all still here,” she whispered, “we’re still
fighting. Come on, now. …”
There was a silver spark, then a wavering light, and
then, with the greatest effort it had ever cost him, the
stag burst from the end of Harry’s wand. It cantered
forward, and now the dementors scattered in earnest,
and immediately the night was mild again, but the
sounds of the surrounding battle were loud in his
ears.
P a g e | 734
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling

www.ztcprep.com

“Can’t thank you enough,” said Ron shakily, turning to Luna, Ernie, and
Seamus, “you just saved —”
With a roar and an earth-quaking tremor, another
giant came lurching out of the darkness from the
direction of the forest, brandishing a club taller than
any of them.
“RUN!” Harry shouted again, but the others needed
no telling: They all scattered, and not a second too
soon, for next moment the creature’s vast foot had
fallen exactly where they had been standing. Harry
looked round: Ron and Hermione were following him,
but the other three had vanished back into the battle.
“Let’s get out of range!” yelled Ron as the giant swung
its club again and its bellows echoed through the
night, across the grounds where bursts of red and
green light continued to illuminate the darkness.
“The Whomping Willow,” said Harry, “go!”
Somehow he walled it all up in his mind, crammed it
into a small space into which he could not look now:
Thoughts of Fred and Hagrid, and his terror for all the
people he loved, scattered in and outside the castle,

www.ztcprep.com

must all wait, because they had to run, had to reach
the snake and Voldemort, because that was, as
Hermione said, the only way to end it —
He sprinted, half believing he could outdistance death
itself, ignoring the jets of light flying in the darkness
all around him, and the sound of the lake crashing
like the sea, and the creaking of the Forbidden Forest
though the night was windless; through grounds that
seemed themselves to have risen in rebellion, he ran
faster than he had ever moved in his life, and it was
he who saw the great tree first, the Willow that
P a g e | 735
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
protected the secret at its roots with whiplike,
slashing branches.
Panting and gasping, Harry slowed down, skirting the
Willow’s swiping branches, peering through the
darkness toward its thick trunk, trying to see the
single knot in the bark of the old tree that would
paralyze it. Ron and Hermione caught up, Hermione

www.ztcprep.com

so out of breath she could not speak.
“How — how’re we going to get in?” panted Ron. “I can
— see the place — if we just had — Crookshanks
again —”
“Crookshanks?” wheezed Hermione, bent double,
clutching her chest. “Are you a wizard, or what?”
“Oh — right — yeah —”
Ron looked around, then directed his wand at a twig
on the ground and said, “Wingardium Leviosa!” The
twig flew up from the ground, spun through the air as
if caught by a gust of wind, then zoomed directly at
the trunk through the Willow’s ominously swaying
branches. It jabbed at a place near the roots, and at
once, the writhing tree became still.
“Perfect!” panted Hermione.
“Wait.”
For one teetering second, while the crashes and
booms of the battle filled the air, Harry hesitated.
Voldemort wanted him to do this, wanted him to
come. … Was he leading Ron and Hermione into a

www.ztcprep.com

trap?
But then the reality seemed to close upon him, cruel
and plain: The only way forward was to kill the snake,
P a g e | 736
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
and the snake was where Voldemort was, and
Voldemort was at the end of this tunnel. …
“Harry, we’re coming, just get in there!” said Ron,
pushing him forward.
Harry wriggled into the earthy passage hidden in the
tree’s roots. It was a much tighter squeeze than it had
been the last time they had entered it. The tunnel was
low-ceilinged: They had had to double up to move
through it nearly four years previously; now there was
nothing for it but to crawl. Harry went first, his wand
illuminated, expecting at any moment to meet
barriers, but none came. They moved in silence,
Harry’s gaze fixed upon the swinging beam of the
wand held in his fist.
At last the tunnel began to slope upward and Harry

www.ztcprep.com

saw a sliver of light ahead. Hermione tugged at his
ankle.
“The Cloak!” she whispered. “Put the Cloak on!”
He groped behind him and she forced the bundle of
slippery cloth into his free hand. With difficulty he
dragged it over himself, murmured, “Nox, ”
extinguishing his wandlight, and continued on his
hands and knees, as silently as possible, all his
senses straining, expecting every second to be
discovered, to hear a cold clear voice, see a flash of
green light.
And then he heard voices coming from the room
directly ahead of them, only slightly muffled by the
fact that the opening at the end of the tunnel had
been blocked up by what looked like an old crate.
Hardly daring to breathe, Harry edged right up to the
opening and peered through a tiny gap left between
crate and wall.
P a g e | 737
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling

www.ztcprep.com

The room beyond was dimly lit, but he could see
Nagini, swirling and coiling like a serpent underwater,
safe in her enchanted, starry sphere, which floated
unsupported in midair. He could see the edge of a
table, and a long-fingered white hand toying with a
wand. Then Snape spoke, and Harry’s heart lurched:
Snape was inches away from where he crouched,
hidden.
“… my Lord, their resistance is crumbling —”
“— and it is doing so without your help,” said
Voldemort in his high, clear voice. “Skilled wizard
though you are, Severus, I do not think you will make
much difference now. We are almost there … almost.”
“Let me find the boy. Let me bring you Potter. I know I
can find him, my Lord. Please.”
Snape strode past the gap, and Harry drew back a
little, keeping his eyes fixed upon Nagini, wondering
whether there was any spell that might penetrate the
protection surrounding her, but he could not think of
anything. One failed attempt, and he would give away

www.ztcprep.com

his position. …
Voldemort stood up. Harry could see him now, see the
red eyes, the flattened, serpentine face, the pallor of
him gleaming slightly in the semidarkness.
“I have a problem, Severus,” said Voldemort softly.
“My Lord?” said Snape.
Voldemort raised the Elder Wand, holding it as
delicately and precisely as a conductor’s baton.
“Why doesn’t it work for me, Severus?”
P a g e | 738
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
In the silence Harry imagined he could hear the snake hissing slightly as it
coiled and uncoiled — or was it
Voldemort’s sibilant sigh lingering on the air?
“My — my Lord?” said Snape blankly. “I do not
understand. You — you have performed extraordinary
magic with that wand.”
“No,” said Voldemort. “I have performed my usual
magic. I am extraordinary, but this wand … no. It has
not revealed the wonders it has promised. I feel no
difference between this wand and the one I procured

www.ztcprep.com

from Ollivander all those years ago.”
Voldemort’s tone was musing, calm, but Harry’s scar
had begun to throb and pulse: Pain was building in
his forehead, and he could feel that controlled sense
of fury building inside Voldemort.
“No difference,” said Voldemort again.
Snape did not speak. Harry could not see his face: He
wondered whether Snape sensed danger, was trying
to find the right words to reassure his master.
Voldemort started to move around the room: Harry
lost sight of him for seconds as he prowled, speaking
in that same measured voice, while the pain and fury
mounted in Harry.
“I have thought long and hard, Severus. … Do you
know why I have called you back from the battle?”
And for a moment Harry saw Snape’s profile: His eyes
were fixed upon the coiling snake in its enchanted
cage.
“No, my Lord, but I beg you will let me return. Let me
find Potter.”

www.ztcprep.com

P a g e | 739
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“You sound like Lucius. Neither of you understands
Potter as I do. He does not need finding. Potter will
come to me. I know his weakness, you see, his one
great flaw. He will hate watching the others struck
down around him, knowing that it is for him that it
happens. He will want to stop it at any cost. He will
come.”
“But my Lord, he might be killed accidentally by one
other than yourself —”
“My instructions to my Death Eaters have been
perfectly clear. Capture Potter. Kill his friends — the
more, the better — but do not kill him.
“But it is of you that I wished to speak, Severus, not
Harry Potter. You have been very valuable to me. Very
valuable.”
“My Lord knows I seek only to serve him. But — let
me go and find the boy, my Lord. Let me bring him to
you. I know I can —”

www.ztcprep.com

“I have told you, no!” said Voldemort, and Harry
caught the glint of red in his eyes as he turned again,
and the swishing of his cloak was like the slithering of
a snake, and he felt Voldemort’s impatience in his
burning scar. “My concern at the moment, Severus, is
what will happen when I finally meet the boy!”
“My Lord, there can be no question, surely — ?”
“— but there is a question, Severus. There is.”
Voldemort halted, and Harry could see him plainly
again as he slid the Elder Wand through his white
fingers, staring at Snape.
P a g e | 740
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“Why did both the wands I have used fail when
directed at Harry Potter?”
“I — I cannot answer that, my Lord.”
“Can’t you?”
The stab of rage felt like a spike driven through
Harry’s head: He forced his own fist into his mouth to
stop himself from crying out in pain. He closed his

www.ztcprep.com

eyes, and suddenly he was Voldemort, looking into
Snape’s pale face.
“My wand of yew did everything of which I asked it,
Severus, except to kill Harry Potter. Twice it failed.
Ollivander told me under torture of the twin cores,
told me to take another’s wand. I did so, but Lucius’s
wand shattered upon meeting Potter’s.”
“I — I have no explanation, my Lord.”
Snape was not looking at Voldemort now. His dark
eyes were still fixed upon the coiling serpent in its
protective sphere.
“I sought a third wand, Severus. The Elder Wand, the
Wand of Destiny, the Deathstick. I took it from its
previous master. I took it from the grave of Albus
Dumbledore.”
And now Snape looked at Voldemort, and Snape’s
face was like a death mask. It was marble white and
so still that when he spoke, it was a shock to see that
anyone lived behind the blank eyes.
“My Lord — let me go to the boy —”

www.ztcprep.com

“All this long night, when I am on the brink of victory,
I have sat here,” said Voldemort, his voice barely
P a g e | 741
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
louder than a whisper, “wondering, wondering, why
the Elder Wand refuses to be what it ought to be,
refuses to perform as legend says it must perform for
its rightful owner … and I think I have the answer.”
Snape did not speak.
“Perhaps you already know it? You are a clever man,
after all, Severus. You have been a good and faithful
servant, and I regret what must happen.”
“My Lord —”
“The Elder Wand cannot serve me properly, Severus,
because I am not its true master. The Elder Wand
belongs to the wizard who killed its last owner. You
killed Albus Dumbledore. While you live, Severus, the
Elder Wand cannot be truly mine.”
“My Lord!” Snape protested, raising his wand.
“It cannot be any other way,” said Voldemort. “I must

www.ztcprep.com

master the wand, Severus. Master the wand, and I
master Potter at last.”
And Voldemort swiped the air with the Elder Wand. It
did nothing to Snape, who for a split second seemed
to think he had been reprieved: But then Voldemort’s
intention became clear. The snake’s cage was rolling
through the air, and before Snape could do anything
more than yell, it had encased him, head and
shoulders, and Voldemort spoke in Parseltongue.
“Kill. ”
There was a terrible scream. Harry saw Snape’s face
losing the little color it had left; it whitened as his
black eyes widened, as the snake’s fangs pierced his
P a g e | 742
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
neck, as he failed to push the enchanted cage off
himself, as his knees gave way and he fell to the floor.
“I regret it,” said Voldemort coldly.
He turned away; there was no sadness in him, no
remorse. It was time to leave this shack and take

www.ztcprep.com

charge, with a wand that would now do his full
bidding. He pointed it at the starry cage holding the
snake, which drifted upward, off Snape, who fell
sideways onto the floor, blood gushing from the
wounds in his neck. Voldemort swept from the room
without a backward glance, and the great serpent
floated after him in its huge protective sphere.
Back in the tunnel and his own mind, Harry opened
his eyes: He had drawn blood biting down on his
knuckles in the effort not to shout out. Now he was
looking through the tiny crack between crate and
wall, watching a foot in a black boot trembling on the
floor.
“Harry!” breathed Hermione behind him, but he had
already pointed his wand at the crate blocking his
view. It lifted an inch into the air and drifted sideways
silently. As quietly as he could, he pulled himself up
into the room.
He did not know why he was doing it, why he was
approaching the dying man: He did not know what he

www.ztcprep.com

felt as he saw Snape’s white face, and the fingers
trying to staunch the bloody wound at his neck.
Harry took off the Invisibility Cloak and looked down
upon the man he hated, whose widening black eyes
found Harry as he tried to speak. Harry bent over
him, and Snape seized the front of his robes and
pulled him close.
P a g e | 743
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
A terrible rasping, gurgling noise issued from Snape’s throat.
“Take … it. … Take … it. …”
Something more than blood was leaking from Snape.
Silvery blue, neither gas nor liquid, it gushed from his
mouth and his ears and his eyes, and Harry knew
what it was, but did not know what to do —
A flask, conjured from thin air, was thrust into his
shaking hands by Hermione. Harry lifted the silvery
substance into it with his wand. When the flask was
full to the brim, and Snape looked as though there
was no blood left in him, his grip on Harry’s robes

www.ztcprep.com

slackened.
“Look … at … me. …” he whispered.
The green eyes found the black, but after a second,
something in the depths of the dark pair seemed to
vanish, leaving them fixed, blank, and empty. The
hand holding Harry thudded to the floor, and Snape
moved no more.
P a g e | 744
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling

THE PRINCE’S TALE
Harry remained kneeling at Snape’s side, simply
staring down at him, until quite suddenly a high, cold
voice spoke so close to them that Harry jumped to his
feet, the flask gripped tightly in his hands, thinking

www.ztcprep.com

that Voldemort had reentered the room.
Voldemort’s voice reverberated from the walls and
floor, and Harry realized that he was talking to
Hogwarts and to all the surrounding area, that the
residents of Hogsmeade and all those still fighting in
the castle would hear him as clearly as if he stood
beside them, his breath on the back of their necks, a
deathblow away.
“You have fought,” said the high, cold voice,
“valiantly. Lord Voldemort knows how to value
bravery.
“Yet you have sustained heavy losses. If you continue
to resist me, you will all die, one by one. I do not wish
this to happen. Every drop of magical blood spilled is
a loss and a waste.
P a g e | 745
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“Lord Voldemort is merciful. I command my forces to retreat immediately.
“You have one hour. Dispose of your dead with
dignity. Treat your injured.

www.ztcprep.com

“I speak now, Harry Potter, directly to you. You have
permitted your friends to die for you rather than face
me yourself. I shall wait for one hour in the Forbidden
Forest. If, at the end of that hour, you have not come
to me, have not given yourself up, then battle
recommences. This time, I shall enter the fray myself,
Harry Potter, and I shall find you, and I shall punish
every last man, woman, and child who has tried to
conceal you from me. One hour.”
Both Ron and Hermione shook their heads frantically,
looking at Harry.
“Don’t listen to him,” said Ron.
“It’ll be all right,” said Hermione wildly. “Let’s — let’s
get back to the castle, if he’s gone to the forest we’ll
need to think of a new plan —”
She glanced at Snape’s body, then hurried back to
the tunnel entrance. Ron followed her. Harry gathered
up the Invisibility Cloak, then looked down at Snape.
He did not know what to feel, except shock at the way
Snape had been killed, and the reason for which it

www.ztcprep.com

had been done. …
They crawled back through the tunnel, none of them
talking, and Harry wondered whether Ron and
Hermione could still hear Voldemort ringing in their
heads, as he could.
P a g e | 746
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
You have permitted your friends to die for you rather than face me yourself.
I shall wait for one hour in the
Forbidden Forest. … One hour. …
Small bundles seemed to litter the lawn at the front of
the castle. It could only be an hour or so from dawn,
yet it was pitch-black. The three of them hurried
toward the stone steps. A lone clog, the size of a small
boat, lay abandoned in front of them. There was no
other sign of Grawp or of his attacker.
The castle was unnaturally silent. There were no
flashes of light now, no bangs or screams or shouts.
The flagstones of the deserted entrance hall were
stained with blood. Emeralds were still scattered all
over the floor, along with pieces of marble and

www.ztcprep.com

splintered wood. Part of the banisters had been blown
away.
“Where is everyone?” whispered Hermione.
Ron led the way to the Great Hall. Harry stopped in
the doorway.
The House tables were gone and the room was
crowded. The survivors stood in groups, their arms
around each other’s necks. The injured were being
treated upon the raised platform by Madam Pomfrey
and a group of helpers. Firenze was amongst the
injured; his flank poured blood and he shook where
he lay, unable to stand.
The dead lay in a row in the middle of the Hall. Harry
could not see Fred’s body, because his family
surrounded him. George was kneeling at his head;
Mrs. Weasley was lying across Fred’s chest, her body
shaking, Mr. Weasley stroking her hair while tears
cascaded down his cheeks.
P a g e | 747
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling

www.ztcprep.com

Without a word to Harry, Ron and Hermione walked
away. Harry saw Hermione approach Ginny, whose
face was swollen and blotchy, and hug her. Ron
joined Bill, Fleur, and Percy, who flung an arm
around Ron’s shoulders. As Ginny and Hermione
moved closer to the rest of the family, Harry had a
clear view of the bodies lying next to Fred: Remus and
Tonks, pale and still and peaceful-looking, apparently
asleep beneath the dark, enchanted ceiling.
The Great Hall seemed to fly away, become smaller,
shrink, as Harry reeled backward from the doorway.
He could not draw breath. He could not bear to look
at any of the other bodies, to see who else had died
for him. He could not bear to join the Weasleys, could
not look into their eyes, when if he had given himself
up in the first place, Fred might never have died. …
He turned away and ran up the marble staircase.
Lupin, Tonks … He yearned not to feel. … He wished
he could rip out his heart, his innards, everything
that was screaming inside him. …

www.ztcprep.com

The castle was completely empty; even the ghosts
seemed to have joined the mass mourning in the
Great Hall. Harry ran without stopping, clutching the
crystal flask of Snape’s last thoughts, and he did not
slow down until he reached the stone gargoyle
guarding the headmaster’s office.
“Password?”
“Dumbledore!” said Harry without thinking, because
it was he whom he yearned to see, and to his surprise
the gargoyle slid aside, revealing the spiral staircase
behind.
But when Harry burst into the circular office he found
a change. The portraits that hung all around the
P a g e | 748
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
walls were empty. Not a single headmaster or
headmistress remained to see him; all, it seemed, had
flitted away, charging through the paintings that lined
the castle, so that they could have a clear view of
what was going on.

www.ztcprep.com

Harry glanced hopelessly at Dumbledore’s deserted
frame, which hung directly behind the headmaster’s
chair, then turned his back on it. The stone Pensieve
lay in the cabinet where it had always been: Harry
heaved it onto the desk and poured Snape’s memories
into the wide basin with its runic markings around
the edge. To escape into someone else’s head would
be a blessed relief. … Nothing that even Snape had
left him could be worse than his own thoughts. The
memories swirled, silver white and strange, and
without hesitating, with a feeling of reckless
abandonment, as though this would assuage his
torturing grief, Harry dived.
He fell headlong into sunlight, and his feet found
warm ground. When he straightened up, he saw that
he was in a nearly deserted playground. A single huge
chimney dominated the distant skyline. Two girls
were swinging backward and forward, and a skinny
boy was watching them from behind a clump of
bushes. His black hair was overlong and his clothes

www.ztcprep.com

were so mismatched that it looked deliberate: too
short jeans, a shabby, overlarge coat that might have
belonged to a grown man, an odd smocklike shirt.
Harry moved closer to the boy. Snape looked no more
than nine or ten years old, sallow, small, stringy.

www.ztcprep.com

There was undisguised greed in his thin face as he
watched the younger of the two girls swinging higher
and higher than her sister.
“Lily, don’t do it!” shrieked the elder of the two.
P a g e | 749
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
But the girl had let go of the swing at the very height of its arc and flown
into the air, quite literally flown,
launched herself skyward with a great shout of
laughter, and instead of crumpling on the playground
asphalt, she soared like a trapeze artist through the
air, staying up far too long, landing far too lightly.
“Mummy told you not to!”
Petunia stopped her swing by dragging the heels of
her sandals on the ground, making a crunching,
grinding sound, then leapt up, hands on hips.
“Mummy said you weren’t allowed, Lily!”
“But I’m fine,” said Lily, still giggling. “Tuney, look at
this. Watch what I can do.”
Petunia glanced around. The playground was

www.ztcprep.com

deserted apart from themselves and, though the girls
did not know it, Snape. Lily had picked up a fallen
flower from the bush behind which Snape lurked.
Petunia advanced, evidently torn between curiosity
and disapproval. Lily waited until Petunia was near
enough to have a clear view, then held out her palm.
The flower sat there, opening and closing its petals,
like some bizarre, many-lipped oyster.
“Stop it!” shrieked Petunia.
“It’s not hurting you,” said Lily, but she closed her
hand on the blossom and threw it back to the ground.
“It’s not right,” said Petunia, but her eyes had
followed the flower’s flight to the ground and lingered
upon it. “How do you do it?” she added, and there
was definite longing in her voice.
P a g e | 750
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“It’s obvious, isn’t it?” Snape could no longer contain himself, but had
jumped out from behind the bushes.
Petunia shrieked and ran backward toward the
swings, but Lily, though clearly startled, remained

www.ztcprep.com

where she was. Snape seemed to regret his
appearance. A dull flush of color mounted the sallow
cheeks as he looked at Lily.
“What’s obvious?” asked Lily.
Snape had an air of nervous excitement. With a
glance at the distant Petunia, now hovering beside the
swings, he lowered his voice and said, “I know what
you are.”
“What do you mean?”
“You’re … you’re a witch,” whispered Snape.
She looked affronted.
“That’s not a very nice thing to say to somebody!”
She turned, nose in the air, and marched off toward
her sister.
“No!” said Snape. He was highly colored now, and
Harry wondered why he did not take off the
ridiculously large coat, unless it was because he did
not want to reveal the smock beneath it. He flapped
after the girls, looking ludicrously batlike, like his
older self.

www.ztcprep.com

The sisters considered him, united in disapproval,
both holding on to one of the swing poles as though it
was the safe place in tag.
P a g e | 751
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“You are, ” said Snape to Lily. “You are a witch. I’ve been watching you
for a while. But there’s nothing
wrong with that. My mum’s one, and I’m a wizard.”
Petunia’s laugh was like cold water.
“Wizard!” she shrieked, her courage returned now
that she had recovered from the shock of his
unexpected appearance. “I know who you are. You’re
that Snape boy! They live down Spinner’s End by the
river,” she told Lily, and it was evident from her tone
that she considered the address a poor
recommendation. “Why have you been spying on us?”
“Haven’t been spying,” said Snape, hot and
uncomfortable and dirty-haired in the bright sunlight.
“Wouldn’t spy on you, anyway,” he added spitefully,
“you’re a Muggle.”
Though Petunia evidently did not understand the

www.ztcprep.com

word, she could hardly mistake the tone.
“Lily, come on, we’re leaving!” she said shrilly. Lily
obeyed her sister at once, glaring at Snape as she left.
He stood watching them as they marched through the
playground gate, and Harry, the only one left to
observe him, recognized Snape’s bitter
disappointment, and understood that Snape had been
planning this moment for a while, and that it had all
gone wrong. …
The scene dissolved, and before Harry knew it, reformed around him. He was now in a small thicket of
trees. He could see a sunlit river glittering through
their trunks. The shadows cast by the trees made a
basin of cool green shade. Two children sat facing
each other, cross-legged on the ground. Snape had
removed his coat now; his odd smock looked less
peculiar in the half light.
P a g e | 752
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“… and the Ministry can punish you if you do magic

www.ztcprep.com

outside school, you get letters.”
“But I have done magic outside school!”
“We’re all right. We haven’t got wands yet. They let
you off when you’re a kid and you can’t help it. But
once you’re eleven,” he nodded importantly, “and they
start training you, then you’ve got to go careful.”
There was a little silence. Lily had picked up a fallen
twig and twirled it in the air, and Harry knew that she
was imagining sparks trailing from it. Then she
dropped the twig, leaned in toward the boy, and said,
“It is real, isn’t it? It’s not a joke? Petunia says you’re
lying to me. Petunia says there isn’t a Hogwarts. It is
real, isn’t it?”
“It’s real for us,” said Snape. “Not for her. But we’ll get
the letter, you and me.”
“Really?” whispered Lily.
“Definitely,” said Snape, and even with his poorly cut
hair and his odd clothes, he struck an oddly
impressive figure sprawled in front of her, brimful of
confidence in his destiny.

www.ztcprep.com

“And will it really come by owl?” Lily whispered.
“Normally,” said Snape. “But you’re Muggle-born, so
someone from the school will have to come and
explain to your parents.”
“Does it make a difference, being Muggle-born?”
Snape hesitated. His black eyes, eager in the greenish
gloom, moved over the pale face, the dark red hair.
P a g e | 753
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“No,” he said. “It doesn’t make any difference.”
“Good,” said Lily, relaxing: It was clear that she had
been worrying.
“You’ve got loads of magic,” said Snape. “I saw that.
All the time I was watching you …”
His voice trailed away; she was not listening, but had
stretched out on the leafy ground and was looking up
at the canopy of leaves overhead. He watched her as
greedily as he had watched her in the playground.
“How are things at your house?” Lily asked.
A little crease appeared between his eyes.

www.ztcprep.com

“Fine,” he said.
“They’re not arguing anymore?”
“Oh yes, they’re arguing,” said Snape. He picked up a
fistful of leaves and began tearing them apart,
apparently unaware of what he was doing. “But it
won’t be that long and I’ll be gone.”
“Doesn’t your dad like magic?”
“He doesn’t like anything, much,” said Snape.
“Severus?”
A little smile twisted Snape’s mouth when she said
his name.
“Yeah?”
“Tell me about the dementors again.”
P a g e | 754
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“What d’you want to know about them for?”
“If I use magic outside school —”
“They wouldn’t give you to the dementors for that!
Dementors are for people who do really bad stuff.
They guard the wizard prison, Azkaban. You’re not

www.ztcprep.com

going to end up in Azkaban, you’re too —”
He turned red again and shredded more leaves. Then
a small rustling noise behind Harry made him turn:
Petunia, hiding behind a tree, had lost her footing.
“Tuney!” said Lily, surprise and welcome in her voice,
but Snape had jumped to his feet.
“Who’s spying now?” he shouted. “What d’you want?”
Petunia was breathless, alarmed at being caught.
Harry could see her struggling for something hurtful
to say.
“What is that you’re wearing, anyway?” she said,
pointing at Snape’s chest. “Your mum’s blouse?”
There was a crack: A branch over Petunia’s head had
fallen. Lily screamed: The branch caught Petunia on
the shoulder, and she staggered backward and burst
into tears.
“Tuney!”
But Petunia was running away. Lily rounded on
Snape.
“Did you make that happen?”

www.ztcprep.com

“No.” He looked both defiant and scared.
P a g e | 755
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“You did!” She was backing away from him. “You did!
You hurt her!”
“No — no I didn’t!”
But the lie did not convince Lily: After one last
burning look, she ran from the little thicket, off after
her sister, and Snape looked miserable and confused.
…
And the scene re-formed. Harry looked around: He
was on platform nine and three-quarters, and Snape
stood beside him, slightly hunched, next to a thin,
sallow-faced, sour-looking woman who greatly
resembled him. Snape was staring at a family of four
a short distance away. The two girls stood a little
apart from their parents. Lily seemed to be pleading
with her sister; Harry moved closer to listen.
“… I’m sorry, Tuney, I’m sorry! Listen —” She caught
her sister’s hand and held tight to it, even though

www.ztcprep.com

Petunia tried to pull it away. “Maybe once I’m there —
no, listen, Tuney! Maybe once I’m there, I’ll be able to
go to Professor Dumbledore and persuade him to
change his mind!”
“I don’t — want — to — go!” said Petunia, and she
dragged her hand back out of her sister’s grasp. “You
think I want to go to some stupid castle and learn to
be a — a —”
Her pale eyes roved over the platform, over the cats
mewling in their owners’ arms, over the owls
fluttering and hooting at each other in cages, over the
students, some already in their long black robes,
loading trunks onto the scarlet steam engine or else
greeting one another with glad cries after a summer
apart.
P a g e | 756
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“— you think I want to be a — a freak?”
Lily’s eyes filled with tears as Petunia succeeded in
tugging her hand away.

www.ztcprep.com

“I’m not a freak,” said Lily. “That’s a horrible thing to
say.”
“That’s where you’re going,” said Petunia with relish.
“A special school for freaks. You and that Snape boy
… weirdos, that’s what you two are. It’s good you’re
being separated from normal people. It’s for our
safety.”
Lily glanced toward her parents, who were looking
around the platform with an air of wholehearted
enjoyment, drinking in the scene. Then she looked
back at her sister, and her voice was low and fierce.
“You didn’t think it was such a freak’s school when
you wrote to the headmaster and begged him to take
you.”
Petunia turned scarlet.
“Beg? I didn’t beg!”
“I saw his reply. It was very kind.”
“You shouldn’t have read —” whispered Petunia, “that
was my private — how could you — ?”
Lily gave herself away by half-glancing toward where

www.ztcprep.com

Snape stood nearby. Petunia gasped.
“That boy found it! You and that boy have been
sneaking in my room!”
P a g e | 757
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“No — not sneaking —” Now Lily was on the
defensive. “Severus saw the envelope, and he couldn’t
believe a Muggle could have contacted Hogwarts,
that’s all! He says there must be wizards working
undercover in the postal service who take care of —”
“Apparently wizards poke their noses in everywhere!”
said Petunia, now as pale as she had been flushed.
“Freak!” she spat at her sister, and she flounced off to
where her parents stood. …
The scene dissolved again. Snape was hurrying along
the corridor of the Hogwarts Express as it clattered
through the countryside. He had already changed into
his school robes, had perhaps taken the first
opportunity to take off his dreadful Muggle clothes. At
last he stopped, outside a compartment in which a

www.ztcprep.com

group of rowdy boys were talking. Hunched in a
corner seat beside the window was Lily, her face
pressed against the windowpane.
Snape slid open the compartment door and sat down
opposite Lily. She glanced at him and then looked
back out of the window. She had been crying.
“I don’t want to talk to you,” she said in a constricted
voice.
“Why not?”
“Tuney h-hates me. Because we saw that letter from
Dumbledore.”
“So what?”
She threw him a look of deep dislike.
“So she’s my sister!”
P a g e | 758
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“She’s only a —” He caught himself quickly; Lily, too busy trying to wipe
her eyes without being noticed,
did not hear him.
“But we’re going!” he said, unable to suppress the
exhilaration in his voice. “This is it! We’re off to

www.ztcprep.com

Hogwarts!”
She nodded, mopping her eyes, but in spite of herself,
she half smiled.
“You’d better be in Slytherin,” said Snape, encouraged
that she had brightened a little.
“Slytherin?”
One of the boys sharing the compartment, who had
shown no interest at all in Lily or Snape until that
point, looked around at the word, and Harry, whose
attention had been focused entirely on the two beside
the window, saw his father: slight, black-haired like
Snape, but with that indefinable air of having been
well-cared-for, even adored, that Snape so
conspicuously lacked.
“Who wants to be in Slytherin? I think I’d leave,
wouldn’t you?” James asked the boy lounging on the
seats opposite him, and with a jolt, Harry realized
that it was Sirius. Sirius did not smile.
“My whole family have been in Slytherin,” he said.
“Blimey,” said James, “and I thought you seemed all

www.ztcprep.com

right!”
Sirius grinned.
“Maybe I’ll break the tradition. Where are you
heading, if you’ve got the choice?”
P a g e | 759
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
James lifted an invisible sword.
“ ‘Gryffindor, where dwell the brave at heart!’ Like my
dad.”
Snape made a small, disparaging noise. James turned
on him.
“Got a problem with that?”
“No,” said Snape, though his slight sneer said
otherwise. “If you’d rather be brawny than brainy —”
“Where’re you hoping to go, seeing as you’re neither?”
interjected Sirius.
James roared with laughter. Lily sat up, rather
flushed, and looked from James to Sirius in dislike.
“Come on, Severus, let’s find another compartment.”
“Oooooo …”

www.ztcprep.com

James and Sirius imitated her lofty voice; James tried
to trip Snape as he passed.
“See ya, Snivellus!” a voice called, as the
compartment door slammed. …
And the scene dissolved once more. …
Harry was standing right behind Snape as they faced
the candlelit House tables, lined with rapt faces. Then
Professor McGonagall said, “Evans, Lily!”
He watched his mother walk forward on trembling
legs and sit down upon the rickety stool. Professor
McGonagall dropped the Sorting Hat onto her head,
P a g e | 760
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
and barely a second after it had touched the dark red hair, the hat cried,
“Gryffindor!”
Harry heard Snape let out a tiny groan. Lily took off
the hat, handed it back to Professor McGonagall, then
hurried toward the cheering Gryffindors, but as she
went she glanced back at Snape, and there was a sad
little smile on her face. Harry saw Sirius move up the
bench to make room for her. She took one look at

www.ztcprep.com

him, seemed to recognize him from the train, folded
her arms, and firmly turned her back on him.
The roll call continued. Harry watched Lupin,
Pettigrew, and his father join Lily and Sirius at the
Gryffindor table. At last, when only a dozen students
remained to be sorted, Professor McGonagall called
Snape.
Harry walked with him to the stool, watched him
place the hat upon his head. “Slytherin!” cried the
Sorting Hat.
And Severus Snape moved off to the other side of the
Hall, away from Lily, to where the Slytherins were
cheering him, to where Lucius Malfoy, a prefect badge
gleaming upon his chest, patted Snape on the back as
he sat down beside him. …
And the scene changed. …
Lily and Snape were walking across the castle
courtyard, evidently arguing. Harry hurried to catch
up with them, to listen in. As he reached them, he
realized how much taller they both were: A few years

www.ztcprep.com

seemed to have passed since their Sorting.
“… thought we were supposed to be friends?” Snape
was saying. “Best friends?”
P a g e | 761
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“We are, Sev, but I don’t like some of the people you’re hanging round
with! I’m sorry, but I detest Avery and
Mulciber! Mulciber! What do you see in him, Sev, he’s
creepy! D’you know what he tried to do to Mary
Macdonald the other day?”
Lily had reached a pillar and leaned against it,
looking up into the thin, sallow face.
“That was nothing,” said Snape. “It was a laugh,
that’s all —”
“It was Dark Magic, and if you think that’s funny —”
“What about the stuff Potter and his mates get up
to?” demanded Snape. His color rose again as he said
it, unable, it seemed, to hold in his resentment.
“What’s Potter got to do with anything?” said Lily.
“They sneak out at night. There’s something weird
about that Lupin. Where does he keep going?”

www.ztcprep.com

“He’s ill,” said Lily. “They say he’s ill —”
“Every month at the full moon?” said Snape.
“I know your theory,” said Lily, and she sounded cold.
“Why are you so obsessed with them anyway? Why do
you care what they’re doing at night?”
“I’m just trying to show you they’re not as wonderful
as everyone seems to think they are.”
The intensity of his gaze made her blush.
“They don’t use Dark Magic, though.” She dropped
her voice. “And you’re being really ungrateful. I heard
what happened the other night. You went sneaking
P a g e | 762
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
down that tunnel by the Whomping Willow, and
James Potter saved you from whatever’s down there
—”
Snape’s whole face contorted and he spluttered,
“Saved? Saved? You think he was playing the hero?
He was saving his neck and his friends’ too! You’re
not going to — I won’t let you —”

www.ztcprep.com

“Let me? Let me?”
Lily’s bright green eyes were slits. Snape backtracked
at once.
“I didn’t mean — I just don’t want to see you made a
fool of — He fancies you, James Potter fancies you!”
The words seemed wrenched from him against his
will. “And he’s not … everyone thinks … big Quidditch
hero —” Snape’s bitterness and dislike were rendering
him incoherent, and Lily’s eyebrows were traveling
farther and farther up her forehead.
“I know James Potter’s an arrogant toerag,” she said,
cutting across Snape. “I don’t need you to tell me
that. But Mulciber’s and Avery’s idea of humor is just
evil. Evil, Sev. I don’t understand how you can be
friends with them.”
Harry doubted that Snape had even heard her
strictures on Mulciber and Avery. The moment she
had insulted James Potter, his whole body had
relaxed, and as they walked away there was a new
spring in Snape’s step. …

www.ztcprep.com

And the scene dissolved. …
Harry watched again as Snape left the Great Hall after
sitting his O.W.L. in Defense Against the Dark Arts,
watched as he wandered away from the castle and
P a g e | 763
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
strayed inadvertently close to the place beneath the beech tree where James,
Sirius, Lupin, and Pettigrew
sat together. But Harry kept his distance this time,
because he knew what happened after James had
hoisted Severus into the air and taunted him; he
knew what had been done and said, and it gave him
no pleasure to hear it again. … He watched as Lily
joined the group and went to Snape’s defense.
Distantly he heard Snape shout at her in his
humiliation and his fury, the unforgivable word:
“Mudblood. ”
The scene changed. …
“I’m sorry.”
“I’m not interested.”
“I’m sorry!”

www.ztcprep.com

“Save your breath.”
It was nighttime. Lily, who was wearing a dressing
gown, stood with her arms folded in front of the
portrait of the Fat Lady, at the entrance to Gryffindor
Tower.
“I only came out because Mary told me you were
threatening to sleep here.”
“I was. I would have done. I never meant to call you
Mudblood, it just —”
“Slipped out?” There was no pity in Lily’s voice. “It’s
too late. I’ve made excuses for you for years. None of
my friends can understand why I even talk to you.
You and your precious little Death Eater friends —
you see, you don’t even deny it! You don’t even deny
P a g e | 764
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
that’s what you’re all aiming to be! You can’t wait to join You-Know-Who,
can you?”
He opened his mouth, but closed it without speaking.
“I can’t pretend anymore. You’ve chosen your way,
I’ve chosen mine.”

www.ztcprep.com

“No — listen, I didn’t mean —”
“— to call me Mudblood? But you call everyone of my
birth Mudblood, Severus. Why should I be any
different?”
He struggled on the verge of speech, but with a
contemptuous look she turned and climbed back
through the portrait hole. …
The corridor dissolved, and the scene took a little
longer to reform: Harry seemed to fly through shifting
shapes and colors until his surroundings solidified
again and he stood on a hilltop, forlorn and cold in
the darkness, the wind whistling through the
branches of a few leafless trees. The adult Snape was
panting, turning on the spot, his wand gripped tightly
in his hand, waiting for something or for someone. …
His fear infected Harry too, even though he knew that
he could not be harmed, and he looked over his
shoulder, wondering what it was that Snape was
waiting for —
Then a blinding, jagged jet of white light flew through

www.ztcprep.com

the air: Harry thought of lightning, but Snape had
dropped to his knees and his wand had flown out of
his hand.
“Don’t kill me!”
“That was not my intention.”
P a g e | 765
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
Any sound of Dumbledore Apparating had been
drowned by the sound of the wind in the branches.
He stood before Snape with his robes whipping
around him, and his face was illuminated from below
in the light cast by his wand.
“Well, Severus? What message does Lord Voldemort
have for me?”
“No — no message — I’m here on my own account!”
Snape was wringing his hands: He looked a little
mad, with his straggling black hair flying around him.
“I — I come with a warning — no, a request — please
—”
Dumbledore flicked his wand. Though leaves and

www.ztcprep.com

branches still flew through the night air around them,
silence fell on the spot where he and Snape faced
each other.
“What request could a Death Eater make of me?”
“The — the prophecy … the prediction … Trelawney
…”
“Ah, yes,” said Dumbledore. “How much did you relay
to Lord Voldemort?”
“Everything — everything I heard!” said Snape. “That
is why — it is for that reason — he thinks it means
Lily Evans!”
“The prophecy did not refer to a woman,” said
Dumbledore. “It spoke of a boy born at the end of
July —”
P a g e | 766
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“You know what I mean! He thinks it means her son,
he is going to hunt her down — kill them all —”
“If she means so much to you,” said Dumbledore,
“surely Lord Voldemort will spare her? Could you not

www.ztcprep.com

ask for mercy for the mother, in exchange for the
son?”
“I have — I have asked him —”
“You disgust me,” said Dumbledore, and Harry had
never heard so much contempt in his voice. Snape
seemed to shrink a little. “You do not care, then,
about the deaths of her husband and child? They can
die, as long as you have what you want?”
Snape said nothing, but merely looked up at
Dumbledore.
“Hide them all, then,” he croaked. “Keep her — them
— safe. Please.”
“And what will you give me in return, Severus?”
“In — in return?” Snape gaped at Dumbledore, and
Harry expected him to protest, but after a long
moment he said, “Anything.”
The hilltop faded, and Harry stood in Dumbledore’s
office, and something was making a terrible sound,
like a wounded animal. Snape was slumped forward
in a chair and Dumbledore was standing over him,

www.ztcprep.com

looking grim. After a moment or two, Snape raised his
face, and he looked like a man who had lived a
hundred years of misery since leaving the wild hilltop.
“I thought … you were going … to keep her … safe.
…”
P a g e | 767
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“She and James put their faith in the wrong person,”
said Dumbledore. “Rather like you, Severus. Weren’t
you hoping that Lord Voldemort would spare her?”
Snape’s breathing was shallow.
“Her boy survives,” said Dumbledore.
With a tiny jerk of the head, Snape seemed to flick off
an irksome fly.
“Her son lives. He has her eyes, precisely her eyes.
You remember the shape and color of Lily Evans’s
eyes, I am sure?”
“DON’T!” bellowed Snape. “Gone … dead …”
“Is this remorse, Severus?”
“I wish … I wish I were dead. …”

www.ztcprep.com

“And what use would that be to anyone?” said
Dumbledore coldly. “If you loved Lily Evans, if you
truly loved her, then your way forward is clear.”
Snape seemed to peer through a haze of pain, and
Dumbledore’s words appeared to take a long time to
reach him.
“What — what do you mean?”
“You know how and why she died. Make sure it was
not in vain. Help me protect Lily’s son.”
“He does not need protection. The Dark Lord has gone
—”
“The Dark Lord will return, and Harry Potter will be in
terrible danger when he does.”
P a g e | 768
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
There was a long pause, and slowly Snape regained
control of himself, mastered his own breathing. At
last he said, “Very well. Very well. But never — never
tell, Dumbledore! This must be between us! Swear it! I
cannot bear … especially Potter’s son … I want your

www.ztcprep.com

word!”
“My word, Severus, that I shall never reveal the best
of you?” Dumbledore sighed, looking down into
Snape’s ferocious, anguished face. “If you insist …”
The office dissolved but re-formed instantly. Snape
was pacing up and down in front of Dumbledore.
“— mediocre, arrogant as his father, a determined
rule-breaker, delighted to find himself famous,
attention-seeking and impertinent —”
“You see what you expect to see, Severus,” said
Dumbledore, without raising his eyes from a copy of
Transfiguration Today. “Other teachers report that the
boy is modest, likable, and reasonably talented.
Personally, I find him an engaging child.”
Dumbledore turned a page, and said, without looking
up, “Keep an eye on Quirrell, won’t you?”
A whirl of color, and now everything darkened, and
Snape and Dumbledore stood a little apart in the
entrance hall, while the last stragglers from the Yule
Ball passed them on their way to bed.

www.ztcprep.com

“Well?” murmured Dumbledore.
“Karkaroff’s Mark is becoming darker too. He is
panicking, he fears retribution; you know how much
help he gave the Ministry after the Dark Lord fell.”
Snape looked sideways at Dumbledore’s crookedP a g e | 769
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
nosed profile. “Karkaroff intends to flee if the Mark burns.”
“Does he?” said Dumbledore softly, as Fleur Delacour
and Roger Davies came giggling in from the grounds.
“And are you tempted to join him?”
“No,” said Snape, his black eyes on Fleur’s and
Roger’s retreating figures. “I am not such a coward.”
“No,” agreed Dumbledore. “You are a braver man by
far than Igor Karkaroff. You know, I sometimes think
we Sort too soon. …”
He walked away, leaving Snape looking stricken. …
And now Harry stood in the headmaster’s office yet
again. It was nighttime, and Dumbledore sagged
sideways in the thronelike chair behind the desk,

www.ztcprep.com

apparently semiconscious. His right hand dangled
over the side, blackened and burned. Snape was
muttering incantations, pointing his wand at the
wrist of the hand, while with his left hand he tipped a
goblet full of thick golden potion down Dumbledore’s
throat. After a moment or two, Dumbledore’s eyelids
fluttered and opened.
“Why,” said Snape, without preamble, “why did you
put on that ring? It carries a curse, surely you
realized that. Why even touch it?”
Marvolo Gaunt’s ring lay on the desk before
Dumbledore. It was cracked; the sword of Gryffindor
lay beside it.
Dumbledore grimaced.
“I … was a fool. Sorely tempted …”
P a g e | 770
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“Tempted by what?”
Dumbledore did not answer.
“It is a miracle you managed to return here!” Snape

www.ztcprep.com

sounded furious. “That ring carried a curse of
extraordinary power, to contain it is all we can hope
for; I have trapped the curse in one hand for the time
being —”
Dumbledore raised his blackened, useless hand, and
examined it with the expression of one being shown
an interesting curio.
“You have done very well, Severus. How long do you
think I have?”
Dumbledore’s tone was conversational; he might have
been asking for a weather forecast. Snape hesitated,
and then said, “I cannot tell. Maybe a year. There is
no halting such a spell forever. It will spread
eventually, it is the sort of curse that strengthens over
time.”
Dumbledore smiled. The news that he had less than a
year to live seemed a matter of little or no concern to
him.
“I am fortunate, extremely fortunate, that I have you,
Severus.”

www.ztcprep.com

“If you had only summoned me a little earlier, I might
have been able to do more, buy you more time!” said
Snape furiously. He looked down at the broken ring
and the sword. “Did you think that breaking the ring
would break the curse?”
“Something like that … I was delirious, no doubt. …”
said Dumbledore. With an effort he straightened
P a g e | 771
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
himself in his chair. “Well, really, this makes matters much more
straightforward.”
Snape looked utterly perplexed. Dumbledore smiled.
“I refer to the plan Lord Voldemort is revolving around
me. His plan to have the poor Malfoy boy murder me.”
Snape sat down in the chair Harry had so often
occupied, across the desk from Dumbledore. Harry
could tell that he wanted to say more on the subject
of Dumbledore’s cursed hand, but the other held it up
in polite refusal to discuss the matter further.
Scowling, Snape said, “The Dark Lord does not expect
Draco to succeed. This is merely punishment for

www.ztcprep.com

Lucius’s recent failures. Slow torture for Draco’s
parents, while they watch him fail and pay the price.”
“In short, the boy has had a death sentence
pronounced upon him as surely as I have,” said
Dumbledore. “Now, I should have thought the natural
successor to the job, once Draco fails, is yourself?”
There was a short pause.
“That, I think, is the Dark Lord’s plan.”
“Lord Voldemort foresees a moment in the near future
when he will not need a spy at Hogwarts?”
“He believes the school will soon be in his grasp, yes.”
“And if it does fall into his grasp,” said Dumbledore,
almost, it seemed, as an aside, “I have your word that
you will do all in your power to protect the students of
Hogwarts?”
Snape gave a stiff nod.
P a g e | 772
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“Good. Now then. Your first priority will be to discover what Draco is up
to. A frightened teenage boy is a
danger to others as well as to himself. Offer him help

www.ztcprep.com

and guidance, he ought to accept, he likes you —”
“— much less since his father has lost favor. Draco
blames me, he thinks I have usurped Lucius’s
position.”
“All the same, try. I am concerned less for myself than
for accidental victims of whatever schemes might
occur to the boy. Ultimately, of course, there is only
one thing to be done if we are to save him from Lord
Voldemort’s wrath.”
Snape raised his eyebrows and his tone was sardonic
as he asked, “Are you intending to let him kill you?”
“Certainly not. You must kill me.”
There was a long silence, broken only by an odd
clicking noise. Fawkes the phoenix was gnawing a bit
of cuttlebone.
“Would you like me to do it now?” asked Snape, his
voice heavy with irony. “Or would you like a few
moments to compose an epitaph?”
“Oh, not quite yet,” said Dumbledore, smiling. “I
daresay the moment will present itself in due course.

www.ztcprep.com

Given what has happened tonight,” he indicated his
withered hand, “we can be sure that it will happen
within a year.”
“If you don’t mind dying,” said Snape roughly, “why
not let Draco do it?”
P a g e | 773
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“That boy’s soul is not yet so damaged,” said
Dumbledore. “I would not have it ripped apart on my
account.”
“And my soul, Dumbledore? Mine?”
“You alone know whether it will harm your soul to
help an old man avoid pain and humiliation,” said
Dumbledore. “I ask this one great favor of you,
Severus, because death is coming for me as surely as
the Chudley Cannons will finish bottom of this year’s
league. I confess I should prefer a quick, painless exit
to the protracted and messy affair it will be if, for
instance, Greyback is involved — I hear Voldemort
has recruited him? Or dear Bellatrix, who likes to

www.ztcprep.com

play with her food before she eats it.”
His tone was light, but his blue eyes pierced Snape as
they had frequently pierced Harry, as though the soul
they discussed was visible to him. At last Snape gave
another curt nod.
Dumbledore seemed satisfied.
“Thank you, Severus …”
The office disappeared, and now Snape and
Dumbledore were strolling together in the deserted
castle grounds by twilight.
“What are you doing with Potter, all these evenings
you are closeted together?” Snape asked abruptly.
Dumbledore looked weary.
“Why? You aren’t trying to give him more detentions,
Severus? The boy will soon have spent more time in
detention than out.”
P a g e | 774
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“He is his father over again —”
“In looks, perhaps, but his deepest nature is much

www.ztcprep.com

more like his mother’s. I spend time with Harry
because I have things to discuss with him,
information I must give him before it is too late.”
“Information,” repeated Snape. “You trust him … you
do not trust me.”
“It is not a question of trust. I have, as we both know,
limited time. It is essential that I give the boy enough
information for him to do what he needs to do.”
“And why may I not have the same information?”
“I prefer not to put all of my secrets in one basket,
particularly not a basket that spends so much time
dangling on the arm of Lord Voldemort.”
“Which I do on your orders!”
“And you do it extremely well. Do not think that I
underestimate the constant danger in which you
place yourself, Severus. To give Voldemort what
appears to be valuable information while withholding
the essentials is a job I would entrust to nobody but
you.”
“Yet you confide much more in a boy who is incapable

www.ztcprep.com

of Occlumency, whose magic is mediocre, and who
has a direct connection into the Dark Lord’s mind!”
“Voldemort fears that connection,” said Dumbledore.
“Not so long ago he had one small taste of what truly
sharing Harry’s mind means to him. It was pain such
as he has never experienced. He will not try to
possess Harry again, I am sure of it. Not in that way.”
P a g e | 775
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“I don’t understand.”
“Lord Voldemort’s soul, maimed as it is, cannot bear
close contact with a soul like Harry’s. Like a tongue
on frozen steel, like flesh in flame —”
“Souls? We were talking of minds!”
“In the case of Harry and Lord Voldemort, to speak of
one is to speak of the other.”
Dumbledore glanced around to make sure that they
were alone. They were close by the Forbidden Forest
now, but there was no sign of anyone near them.
“After you have killed me, Severus —”

www.ztcprep.com

“You refuse to tell me everything, yet you expect that
small service of me!” snarled Snape, and real anger
flared in the thin face now. “You take a great deal for
granted, Dumbledore! Perhaps I have changed my
mind!”
“You gave me your word, Severus. And while we are
talking about services you owe me, I thought you
agreed to keep a close eye on our young Slytherin
friend?”
Snape looked angry, mutinous. Dumbledore sighed.
“Come to my office tonight, Severus, at eleven, and
you shall not complain that I have no confidence in
you. …”
They were back in Dumbledore’s office, the windows
dark, and Fawkes sat silent as Snape sat quite still,
as Dumbledore walked around him, talking.
P a g e | 776
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“Harry must not know, not until the last moment, not until it is necessary,
otherwise how could he have the
strength to do what must be done?”

www.ztcprep.com

“But what must he do?”
“That is between Harry and me. Now listen closely,
Severus. There will come a time — after my death —
do not argue, do not interrupt! There will come a time
when Lord Voldemort will seem to fear for the life of
his snake.”
“For Nagini?” Snape looked astonished.
“Precisely. If there comes a time when Lord Voldemort
stops sending that snake forth to do his bidding, but
keeps it safe beside him under magical protection,
then, I think, it will be safe to tell Harry.”
“Tell him what?”
Dumbledore took a deep breath and closed his eyes.
“Tell him that on the night Lord Voldemort tried to kill
him, when Lily cast her own life between them as a
shield, the Killing Curse rebounded upon Lord
Voldemort, and a fragment of Voldemort’s soul was
blasted apart from the whole, and latched itself onto
the only living soul left in that collapsing building.
Part of Lord Voldemort lives inside Harry, and it is

www.ztcprep.com

that which gives him the power of speech with
snakes, and a connection with Lord Voldemort’s mind
that he has never understood. And while that
fragment of soul, unmissed by Voldemort, remains
attached to and protected by Harry, Lord Voldemort
cannot die.”
P a g e | 777
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
Harry seemed to be watching the two men from one
end of a long tunnel, they were so far away from him,
their voices echoing strangely in his ears.
“So the boy … the boy must die?” asked Snape quite
calmly.
“And Voldemort himself must do it, Severus. That is
essential.”
Another long silence. Then Snape said, “I thought …
all these years … that we were protecting him for her.
For Lily.”
“We have protected him because it has been essential
to teach him, to raise him, to let him try his strength,”

www.ztcprep.com

said Dumbledore, his eyes still tight shut.
“Meanwhile, the connection between them grows ever
stronger, a parasitic growth: Sometimes I have
thought he suspects it himself. If I know him, he will
have arranged matters so that when he does set out
to meet his death, it will truly mean the end of
Voldemort.”
Dumbledore opened his eyes. Snape looked horrified.
“You have kept him alive so that he can die at the
right moment?”
“Don’t be shocked, Severus. How many men and
women have you watched die?”
“Lately, only those whom I could not save,” said
Snape. He stood up. “You have used me.”
“Meaning?”
“I have spied for you and lied for you, put myself in
mortal danger for you. Everything was supposed to be
P a g e | 778
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
to keep Lily Potter’s son safe. Now you tell me you have been raising him
like a pig for slaughter —”

www.ztcprep.com

“But this is touching, Severus,” said Dumbledore
seriously. “Have you grown to care for the boy, after
all?”
“For him?” shouted Snape. “Expecto Patronum!”
From the tip of his wand burst the silver doe: She
landed on the office floor, bounded once across the
office, and soared out of the window. Dumbledore
watched her fly away, and as her silvery glow faded
he turned back to Snape, and his eyes were full of
tears.
“After all this time?”
“Always,” said Snape.
And the scene shifted. Now, Harry saw Snape talking
to the portrait of Dumbledore behind his desk.
“You will have to give Voldemort the correct date of
Harry’s departure from his aunt and uncle’s,” said
Dumbledore. “Not to do so will raise suspicion, when
Voldemort believes you so well informed. However,
you must plant the idea of decoys; that, I think, ought
to ensure Harry’s safety. Try Confunding Mundungus

www.ztcprep.com

Fletcher. And Severus, if you are forced to take part
in the chase, be sure to act your part convincingly. …
I am counting upon you to remain in Lord
Voldemort’s good books as long as possible, or
Hogwarts will be left to the mercy of the Carrows. …”
Now Snape was head to head with Mundungus in an
unfamiliar tavern, Mundungus’s face looking
curiously blank, Snape frowning in concentration.
P a g e | 779
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“You will suggest to the Order of the Phoenix,” Snape murmured, “that they
use decoys. Polyjuice Potion.
Identical Potters. It is the only thing that might work.
You will forget that I have suggested this. You will
present it as your own idea. You understand?”
“I understand,” murmured Mundungus, his eyes
unfocused. …
Now Harry was flying alongside Snape on a
broomstick through a clear dark night: He was
accompanied by other hooded Death Eaters, and
ahead were Lupin and a Harry who was really George.

www.ztcprep.com

… A Death Eater moved ahead of Snape and raised
his wand, pointing it directly at Lupin’s back —
“Sectumsempra!” shouted Snape.
But the spell, intended for the Death Eater’s wand
hand, missed and hit George instead —
And next, Snape was kneeling in Sirius’s old
bedroom. Tears were dripping from the end of his
hooked nose as he read the old letter from Lily. The
second page carried only a few words:
could ever have been friends with Gellert Grindelwald.
I think her mind’s going, personally!
Lots of love,
Lily
Snape took the page bearing Lily’s signature, and her
love, and tucked it inside his robes. Then he ripped in
two the photograph he was also holding, so that he
kept the part from which Lily laughed, throwing the
portion showing James and Harry back onto the floor,
under the chest of drawers. …
P a g e | 780

www.ztcprep.com

Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
And now Snape stood again in the headmaster’s
study as Phineas Nigellus came hurrying into his
portrait.
“Headmaster! They are camping in the Forest of Dean!
The Mudblood —”
“Do not use that word!”
“— the Granger girl, then, mentioned the place as she
opened her bag and I heard her!”
“Good. Very good!” cried the portrait of Dumbledore
behind the headmaster’s chair. “Now, Severus, the
sword! Do not forget that it must be taken under
conditions of need and valor — and he must not know
that you give it! If Voldemort should read Harry’s
mind and see you acting for him —”
“I know,” said Snape curtly. He approached the
portrait of Dumbledore and pulled at its side. It
swung forward, revealing a hidden cavity behind it
from which he took the sword of Gryffindor.
“And you still aren’t going to tell me why it’s so

www.ztcprep.com

important to give Potter the sword?” said Snape as he
swung a traveling cloak over his robes.
“No, I don’t think so,” said Dumbledore’s portrait. “He
will know what to do with it. And Severus, be very
careful, they may not take kindly to your appearance
after George Weasley’s mishap —”
Snape turned at the door.
“Don’t worry, Dumbledore,” he said coolly. “I have a
plan. …”
P a g e | 781
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
And Snape left the room. Harry rose up out of the
Pensieve, and moments later he lay on the carpeted
floor in exactly the same room: Snape might just have
closed the door.
P a g e | 782
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling

www.ztcprep.com

THE FOREST AGAIN
Finally, the truth. Lying with his face pressed into the
dusty carpet of the office where he had once thought
he was learning the secrets of victory, Harry
understood at last that he was not supposed to
survive. His job was to walk calmly into Death’s
welcoming arms. Along the way, he was to dispose of
Voldemort’s remaining links to life, so that when at
last he flung himself across Voldemort’s path, and did
not raise a wand to defend himself, the end would be
clean, and the job that ought to have been done in
Godric’s Hollow would be finished: Neither would live,
neither could survive.
He felt his heart pounding fiercely in his chest. How
strange that in his dread of death, it pumped all the
harder, valiantly keeping him alive. But it would have

www.ztcprep.com

to stop, and soon. Its beats were numbered. How
many would there be time for, as he rose and walked
through the castle for the last time, out into the
grounds and into the forest?
P a g e | 783
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
Terror washed over him as he lay on the floor, with that funeral drum
pounding inside him. Would it hurt
to die? All those times he had thought that it was
about to happen and escaped, he had never really
thought of the thing itself: His will to live had always
been so much stronger than his fear of death. Yet it
did not occur to him now to try to escape, to outrun
Voldemort. It was over, he knew it, and all that was
left was the thing itself: dying.
If he could only have died on that summer’s night
when he had left number four, Privet Drive, for the
last time, when the noble phoenix-feather wand had
saved him! If he could only have died like Hedwig, so
quickly he would not have known it had happened!
Or if he could have launched himself in front of a

www.ztcprep.com

wand to save someone he loved. … He envied even his
parents’ deaths now. This cold-blooded walk to his
own destruction would require a different kind of
bravery. He felt his fingers trembling slightly and
made an effort to control them, although no one could
see him; the portraits on the walls were all empty.
Slowly, very slowly, he sat up, and as he did so he felt
more alive and more aware of his own living body
than ever before. Why had he never appreciated what
a miracle he was, brain and nerve and bounding
heart? It would all be gone … or at least, he would be
gone from it. His breath came slow and deep, and his
mouth and throat were completely dry, but so were
his eyes.
Dumbledore’s betrayal was almost nothing. Of course
there had been a bigger plan; Harry had simply been
too foolish to see it, he realized that now. He had
never questioned his own assumption that
Dumbledore wanted him alive. Now he saw that his
life span had always been determined by how long it

www.ztcprep.com

took to eliminate all the Horcruxes. Dumbledore had
P a g e | 784
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
passed the job of destroying them to him, and
obediently he had continued to chip away at the
bonds tying not only Voldemort, but himself, to life!
How neat, how elegant, not to waste any more lives,
but to give the dangerous task to the boy who had
already been marked for slaughter, and whose death
would not be a calamity, but another blow against
Voldemort.
And Dumbledore had known that Harry would not
duck out, that he would keep going to the end, even
though it was his end, because he had taken trouble
to get to know him, hadn’t he? Dumbledore knew, as
Voldemort knew, that Harry would not let anyone else
die for him now that he had discovered it was in his
power to stop it. The images of Fred, Lupin, and
Tonks lying dead in the Great Hall forced their way
back into his mind’s eye, and for a moment he could

www.ztcprep.com

hardly breathe: Death was impatient. …
But Dumbledore had overestimated him. He had
failed: The snake survived. One Horcrux remained to
bind Voldemort to the earth, even after Harry had
been killed. True, that would mean an easier job for
somebody. He wondered who would do it. … Ron and
Hermione would know what needed to be done, of
course. … That would have been why Dumbledore
wanted him to confide in two others … so that if he
fulfilled his true destiny a little early, they could carry
on. …
Like rain on a cold window, these thoughts pattered
against the hard surface of the incontrovertible truth,
which was that he must die. I must die. It must end.
Ron and Hermione seemed a long way away, in a faroff country; he felt as though he had parted from
them long ago. There would be no good-byes and no
explanations, he was determined of that. This was a
P a g e | 785
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling

www.ztcprep.com

journey they could not take together, and the
attempts they would make to stop him would waste
valuable time. He looked down at the battered gold
watch he had received on his seventeenth birthday.
Nearly half of the hour allotted by Voldemort for his
surrender had elapsed.
He stood up. His heart was leaping against his ribs
like a frantic bird. Perhaps it knew it had little time
left, perhaps it was determined to fulfill a lifetime’s
beats before the end. He did not look back as he
closed the office door.
The castle was empty. He felt ghostly striding through
it alone, as if he had already died. The portrait people
were still missing from their frames; the whole place
was eerily still, as if all its remaining lifeblood were
concentrated in the Great Hall where the dead and
the mourners were crammed.
Harry pulled the Invisibility Cloak over himself and
descended through the floors, at last walking down
the marble staircase into the entrance hall. Perhaps

www.ztcprep.com

some tiny part of him hoped to be sensed, to be seen,
to be stopped, but the Cloak was, as ever,
impenetrable, perfect, and he reached the front doors
easily.
Then Neville nearly walked into him. He was one half
of a pair that was carrying a body in from the
grounds. Harry glanced down and felt another dull
blow to his stomach: Colin Creevey, though underage,
must have sneaked back just as Malfoy, Crabbe, and
Goyle had done. He was tiny in death.
“You know what? I can manage him alone, Neville,”
said Oliver Wood, and he heaved Colin over his
shoulder in a fireman’s lift and carried him into the
Great Hall.
P a g e | 786
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
Neville leaned against the door frame for a moment
and wiped his forehead with the back of his hand. He
looked like an old man. Then he set off down the
steps again into the darkness to recover more bodies.

www.ztcprep.com

Harry took one glance back at the entrance of the
Great Hall. People were moving around, trying to
comfort each other, drinking, kneeling beside the
dead, but he could not see any of the people he loved,
no hint of Hermione, Ron, Ginny, or any of the other
Weasleys, no Luna. He felt he would have given all the
time remaining to him for just one last look at them;
but then, would he ever have the strength to stop
looking? It was better like this.
He moved down the steps and out into the darkness.
It was nearly four in the morning, and the deathly
stillness of the grounds felt as though they were
holding their breath, waiting to see whether he could
do what he must.
Harry moved toward Neville, who was bending over
another body.
“Neville.”
“Blimey, Harry, you nearly gave me heart failure!”
Harry had pulled off the Cloak: The idea had come to
him out of nowhere, born out of a desire to make

www.ztcprep.com

absolutely sure.
“Where are you going, alone?” Neville asked
suspiciously.
“It’s all part of the plan,” said Harry. “There’s
something I’ve got to do. Listen — Neville —”
P a g e | 787
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“Harry!” Neville looked suddenly scared. “Harry,
you’re not thinking of handing yourself over?”
“No,” Harry lied easily. “ ’Course not … this is
something else. But I might be out of sight for a while.
You know Voldemort’s snake, Neville? He’s got a huge
snake. … Calls it Nagini …”
“I’ve heard, yeah. … What about it?”
“It’s got to be killed. Ron and Hermione know that,
but just in case they —”
The awfulness of that possibility smothered him for a
moment, made it impossible to keep talking. But he
pulled himself together again: This was crucial, he
must be like Dumbledore, keep a cool head, make

www.ztcprep.com

sure there were backups, others to carry on.
Dumbledore had died knowing that three people still
knew about the Horcruxes; now Neville would take
Harry’s place: There would still be three in the secret.
“Just in case they’re — busy — and you get the
chance —”
“Kill the snake?”
“Kill the snake,” Harry repeated.
“All right, Harry. You’re okay, are you?”
“I’m fine. Thanks, Neville.”
But Neville seized his wrist as Harry made to move
on.
“We’re all going to keep fighting, Harry. You know
that?”
P a g e | 788
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“Yeah, I —”
The suffocating feeling extinguished the end of the
sentence; he could not go on. Neville did not seem to
find it strange. He patted Harry on the shoulder,

www.ztcprep.com

released him, and walked away to look for more
bodies.
Harry swung the Cloak back over himself and walked
on. Someone else was moving not far away, stooping
over another prone figure on the ground. He was feet
away from her when he realized it was Ginny.
He stopped in his tracks. She was crouching over a
girl who was whispering for her mother.
“It’s all right,” Ginny was saying. “It’s okay. We’re
going to get you inside.”
“But I want to go home, ” whispered the girl. “I don’t
want to fight anymore!”
“I know,” said Ginny, and her voice broke. “It’s going
to be all right.”
Ripples of cold undulated over Harry’s skin. He
wanted to shout out to the night, he wanted Ginny to
know that he was there, he wanted her to know where
he was going. He wanted to be stopped, to be dragged
back, to be sent back home. …
But he was home. Hogwarts was the first and best

www.ztcprep.com

home he had known. He and Voldemort and Snape,
the abandoned boys, had all found home here. …
Ginny was kneeling beside the injured girl now,
holding her hand. With a huge effort Harry forced
himself on. He thought he saw Ginny look around as
he passed, and wondered whether she had sensed
P a g e | 789
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
someone walking nearby, but he did not speak, and
he did not look back.
Hagrid’s hut loomed out of the darkness. There were
no lights, no sound of Fang scrabbling at the door,
his bark booming in welcome. All those visits to
Hagrid, and the gleam of the copper kettle on the fire,
and rock cakes and giant grubs, and his great
bearded face, and Ron vomiting slugs, and Hermione
helping him save Norbert …
He moved on, and now he reached the edge of the
forest, and he stopped.
A swarm of dementors was gliding amongst the trees;

www.ztcprep.com

he could feel their chill, and he was not sure he would
be able to pass safely through it. He had no strength
left for a Patronus. He could no longer control his own
trembling. It was not, after all, so easy to die. Every
second he breathed, the smell of the grass, the cool
air on his face, was so precious: To think that people
had years and years, time to waste, so much time it
dragged, and he was clinging to each second. At the
same time he thought that he would not be able to go
on, and knew that he must. The long game was
ended, the Snitch had been caught, it was time to
leave the air. …
The Snitch. His nerveless fingers fumbled for a
moment with the pouch at his neck and he pulled it
out.
I open at the close.
Breathing fast and hard, he stared down at it. Now
that he wanted time to move as slowly as possible, it
seemed to have sped up, and understanding was
coming so fast it seemed to have bypassed thought.

www.ztcprep.com

This was the close. This was the moment.
P a g e | 790
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
He pressed the golden metal to his lips and
whispered, “I am about to die.”
The metal shell broke open. He lowered his shaking
hand, raised Draco’s wand beneath the Cloak, and
murmured, “Lumos. ”
The black stone with its jagged crack running down
the center sat in the two halves of the Snitch. The
Resurrection Stone had cracked down the vertical line
representing the Elder Wand. The triangle and circle
representing the Cloak and the stone were still
discernible.
And again Harry understood without having to think.
It did not matter about bringing them back, for he
was about to join them. He was not really fetching
them: They were fetching him.
He closed his eyes and turned the stone over in his
hand three times.

www.ztcprep.com

He knew it had happened, because he heard slight
movements around him that suggested frail bodies
shifting their footing on the earthy, twig-strewn
ground that marked the outer edge of the forest. He
opened his eyes and looked around.
They were neither ghost nor truly flesh, he could see
that. They resembled most closely the Riddle that had
escaped from the diary so long ago, and he had been
memory made nearly solid. Less substantial than
living bodies, but much more than ghosts, they
moved toward him, and on each face, there was the
same loving smile.
James was exactly the same height as Harry. He was
wearing the clothes in which he had died, and his
P a g e | 791
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
hair was untidy and ruffled, and his glasses were a little lopsided, like Mr.
Weasley’s.
Sirius was tall and handsome, and younger by far
than Harry had seen him in life. He loped with an
easy grace, his hands in his pockets and a grin on his

www.ztcprep.com

face.
Lupin was younger too, and much less shabby, and
his hair was thicker and darker. He looked happy to
be back in this familiar place, scene of so many
adolescent wanderings.
Lily’s smile was widest of all. She pushed her long
hair back as she drew close to him, and her green
eyes, so like his, searched his face hungrily, as
though she would never be able to look at him
enough.
“You’ve been so brave.”
He could not speak. His eyes feasted on her, and he
thought that he would like to stand and look at her
forever, and that would be enough.
“You are nearly there,” said James. “Very close. We
are … so proud of you.”
“Does it hurt?”
The childish question had fallen from Harry’s lips
before he could stop it.
“Dying? Not at all,” said Sirius. “Quicker and easier

www.ztcprep.com

than falling asleep.”
“And he will want it to be quick. He wants it over,”
said Lupin.
P a g e | 792
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“I didn’t want you to die,” Harry said. These words came without his
volition. “Any of you. I’m sorry —”
He addressed Lupin more than any of them,
beseeching him.
“— right after you’d had your son … Remus, I’m sorry
—”
“I am sorry too,” said Lupin. “Sorry I will never know
him … but he will know why I died and I hope he will
understand. I was trying to make a world in which he
could live a happier life.”
A chilly breeze that seemed to emanate from the heart
of the forest lifted the hair at Harry’s brow. He knew
that they would not tell him to go, that it would have
to be his decision.
“You’ll stay with me?”
“Until the very end,” said James.

www.ztcprep.com

“They won’t be able to see you?” asked Harry.
“We are part of you,” said Sirius. “Invisible to anyone
else.”
Harry looked at his mother.
“Stay close to me,” he said quietly.
And he set off. The dementors’ chill did not overcome
him; he passed through it with his companions, and
they acted like Patronuses to him, and together they
marched through the old trees that grew closely
together, their branches tangled, their roots gnarled
and twisted underfoot. Harry clutched the Cloak
tightly around him in the darkness, traveling deeper
P a g e | 793
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
and deeper into the forest, with no idea where exactly Voldemort was, but
sure that he would find him.
Beside him, making scarcely a sound, walked James,
Sirius, Lupin, and Lily, and their presence was his
courage, and the reason he was able to keep putting
one foot in front of the other.
His body and mind felt oddly disconnected now, his

www.ztcprep.com

limbs working without conscious instruction, as if he
were passenger, not driver, in the body he was about
to leave. The dead who walked beside him through
the forest were much more real to him now than the
living back at the castle: Ron, Hermione, Ginny, and
all the others were the ones who felt like ghosts as he
stumbled and slipped toward the end of his life,
toward Voldemort. …
A thud and a whisper: Some other living creature had
stirred close by. Harry stopped under the Cloak,
peering around, listening, and his mother and father,
Lupin and Sirius stopped too.
“Someone there,” came a rough whisper close at
hand. “He’s got an Invisibility Cloak. Could it be — ?”
Two figures emerged from behind a nearby tree: Their
wands flared, and Harry saw Yaxley and Dolohov
peering into the darkness, directly at the place Harry,
his mother and father and Sirius and Lupin stood.
Apparently they could not see anything.
“Definitely heard something,” said Yaxley. “Animal,

www.ztcprep.com

d’you reckon?”
“That head case Hagrid kept a whole bunch of stuff in
here,” said Dolohov, glancing over his shoulder.
Yaxley looked down at his watch.
P a g e | 794
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“Time’s nearly up. Potter’s had his hour. He’s not
coming.”
“And he was sure he’d come! He won’t be happy.”
“Better go back,” said Yaxley. “Find out what the plan
is now.”
He and Dolohov turned and walked deeper into the
forest. Harry followed them, knowing that they would
lead him exactly where he wanted to go. He glanced
sideways, and his mother smiled at him, and his
father nodded encouragement.
They had traveled on mere minutes when Harry saw
light ahead, and Yaxley and Dolohov stepped out into
a clearing that Harry knew had been the place where
the monstrous Aragog had once lived. The remnants

www.ztcprep.com

of his vast web were there still, but the swarm of
descendants he had spawned had been driven out by
the Death Eaters, to fight for their cause.
A fire burned in the middle of the clearing, and its
flickering light fell over a crowd of completely silent,
watchful Death Eaters. Some of them were still
masked and hooded; others showed their faces. Two
giants sat on the outskirts of the group, casting
massive shadows over the scene, their faces cruel,
rough-hewn like rock. Harry saw Fenrir, skulking,
chewing his long nails; the great blond Rowle was
dabbing at his bleeding lip. He saw Lucius Malfoy,
who looked defeated and terrified, and Narcissa,
whose eyes were sunken and full of apprehension.
Every eye was fixed upon Voldemort, who stood with
his head bowed, and his white hands folded over the
Elder Wand in front of him. He might have been
praying, or else counting silently in his mind, and
Harry, standing still on the edge of the scene, thought
P a g e | 795

www.ztcprep.com

Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
absurdly of a child counting in a game of hide-andseek. Behind his head, still swirling and coiling, the
great snake Nagini floated in her glittering, charmed
cage, like a monstrous halo.
When Dolohov and Yaxley rejoined the circle,
Voldemort looked up.
“No sign of him, my Lord,” said Dolohov.
Voldemort’s expression did not change. The red eyes
seemed to burn in the firelight. Slowly he drew the
Elder Wand between his long fingers.
“My Lord —”
Bellatrix had spoken: She sat closest to Voldemort,
disheveled, her face a little bloody but otherwise
unharmed.
Voldemort raised his hand to silence her, and she did
not speak another word, but eyed him in worshipful
fascination.
“I thought he would come,” said Voldemort in his
high, clear voice, his eyes on the leaping flames. “I

www.ztcprep.com

expected him to come.”
Nobody spoke. They seemed as scared as Harry,
whose heart was now throwing itself against his ribs
as though determined to escape the body he was
about to cast aside. His hands were sweating as he
pulled off the Invisibility Cloak and stuffed it beneath
his robes, with his wand. He did not want to be
tempted to fight.
“I was, it seems … mistaken,” said Voldemort.
“You weren’t.”
P a g e | 796
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
Harry said it as loudly as he could, with all the force he could muster: He
did not want to sound afraid.
The Resurrection Stone slipped from between his
numb fingers, and out of the corner of his eyes he
saw his parents, Sirius, and Lupin vanish as he
stepped forward into the firelight. At that moment he
felt that nobody mattered but Voldemort. It was just
the two of them.
The illusion was gone as soon as it had come. The

www.ztcprep.com

giants roared as the Death Eaters rose together, and
there were many cries, gasps, even laughter.
Voldemort had frozen where he stood, but his red
eyes had found Harry, and he stared as Harry moved
toward him, with nothing but the fire between them.
Then a voice yelled: “HARRY! NO!”
He turned: Hagrid was bound and trussed, tied to a
tree nearby. His massive body shook the branches
overhead as he struggled, desperate.
“NO! NO! HARRY, WHAT’RE YEH — ?”
“QUIET!” shouted Rowle, and with a flick of his wand
Hagrid was silenced.
Bellatrix, who had leapt to her feet, was looking
eagerly from Voldemort to Harry, her breast heaving.
The only things that moved were the flames and the
snake, coiling and uncoiling in the glittering cage
behind Voldemort’s head.
Harry could feel his wand against his chest, but he
made no attempt to draw it. He knew that the snake
was too well protected, knew that if he managed to

www.ztcprep.com

point the wand at Nagini, fifty curses would hit him
first. And still, Voldemort and Harry looked at each
other, and now Voldemort tilted his head a little to
P a g e | 797
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
the side, considering the boy standing before him,
and a singularly mirthless smile curled the lipless
mouth.
“Harry Potter,” he said very softly. His voice might
have been part of the spitting fire. “The Boy Who
Lived.”
None of the Death Eaters moved. They were waiting:
Everything was waiting. Hagrid was struggling, and
Bellatrix was panting, and Harry thought inexplicably
of Ginny, and her blazing look, and the feel of her lips
on his —
Voldemort had raised his wand. His head was still
tilted to one side, like a curious child, wondering what
would happen if he proceeded. Harry looked back into
the red eyes, and wanted it to happen now, quickly,

www.ztcprep.com

while he could still stand, before he lost control,
before he betrayed fear —
He saw the mouth move and a flash of green light,
and everything was gone.
P a g e | 798
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling

KING’S CROSS
He lay facedown, listening to the silence. He was
perfectly alone. Nobody was watching. Nobody else
was there. He was not perfectly sure that he was
there himself.
A long time later, or maybe no time at all, it came to
him that he must exist, must be more than
disembodied thought, because he was lying, definitely

www.ztcprep.com

lying, on some surface. Therefore he had a sense of
touch, and the thing against which he lay existed too.
Almost as soon as he had reached this conclusion,
Harry became conscious that he was naked.
Convinced as he was of his total solitude, this did not
concern him, but it did intrigue him slightly. He
wondered whether, as he could feel, he would be able
to see. In opening them, he discovered that he had
eyes.
He lay in a bright mist, though it was not like mist he
had ever experienced before. His surroundings were
not hidden by cloudy vapor; rather the cloudy vapor
P a g e | 799
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
had not yet formed into surroundings. The floor on
which he lay seemed to be white, neither warm nor
cold, but simply there, a flat, blank something on
which to be.
He sat up. His body appeared unscathed. He touched
his face. He was not wearing glasses anymore.

www.ztcprep.com

Then a noise reached him through the unformed
nothingness that surrounded him: the small soft
thumpings of something that flapped, flailed, and
struggled. It was a pitiful noise, yet also slightly
indecent. He had the uncomfortable feeling that he
was eavesdropping on something furtive, shameful.
For the first time, he wished he were clothed.
Barely had the wish formed in his head than robes
appeared a short distance away. He took them and
pulled them on: They were soft, clean, and warm. It
was extraordinary how they had appeared, just like
that, the moment he had wanted them. …
He stood up, looking around. Was he in some great
Room of Requirement? The longer he looked, the more
there was to see. A great domed glass roof glittered
high above him in sunlight. Perhaps it was a palace.
All was hushed and still, except for those odd
thumping and whimpering noises coming from
somewhere close by in the mist. …
Harry turned slowly on the spot, and his

www.ztcprep.com

surroundings seemed to invent themselves before his
eyes. A wide-open space, bright and clean, a hall
larger by far than the Great Hall, with that clear,
domed glass ceiling. It was quite empty. He was the
only person there, except for —
P a g e | 800
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
He recoiled. He had spotted the thing that was
making the noises. It had the form of a small, naked
child, curled on the ground, its skin raw and rough,
flayed-looking, and it lay shuddering under a seat
where it had been left, unwanted, stuffed out of sight,
struggling for breath.
He was afraid of it. Small and fragile and wounded
though it was, he did not want to approach it.
Nevertheless he drew slowly nearer, ready to jump
back at any moment. Soon he stood near enough to
touch it, yet he could not bring himself to do it. He
felt like a coward. He ought to comfort it, but it
repulsed him.

www.ztcprep.com

“You cannot help.”
He spun around. Albus Dumbledore was walking
toward him, sprightly and upright, wearing sweeping
robes of midnight blue.
“Harry.” He spread his arms wide, and his hands were
both whole and white and undamaged. “You
wonderful boy. You brave, brave man. Let us walk.”
Stunned, Harry followed as Dumbledore strode away
from where the flayed child lay whimpering, leading
him to two seats that Harry had not previously
noticed, set some distance away under that high,
sparkling ceiling. Dumbledore sat down in one of
them, and Harry fell into the other, staring at his old
headmaster’s face. Dumbledore’s long silver hair and
beard, the piercingly blue eyes behind half-moon
spectacles, the crooked nose: Everything was as he
had remembered it. And yet…
“But you’re dead,” said Harry.
“Oh yes,” said Dumbledore matter-of-factly.
P a g e | 801

www.ztcprep.com

Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“Then … I’m dead too?”
“Ah,” said Dumbledore, smiling still more broadly.
“That is the question, isn’t it? On the whole, dear boy,
I think not.”
They looked at each other, the old man still beaming.
“Not?” repeated Harry.
“Not,” said Dumbledore.
“But …” Harry raised his hand instinctively toward
the lightning scar. It did not seem to be there. “But I
should have died — I didn’t defend myself! I meant to
let him kill me!”
“And that,” said Dumbledore, “will, I think, have
made all the difference.”
Happiness seemed to radiate from Dumbledore like
light, like fire: Harry had never seen the man so
utterly, so palpably content.
“Explain,” said Harry.
“But you already know,” said Dumbledore. He
twiddled his thumbs together.

www.ztcprep.com

“I let him kill me,” said Harry. “Didn’t I?”
“You did,” said Dumbledore, nodding. “Go on!”
“So the part of his soul that was in me …”
Dumbledore nodded still more enthusiastically,
urging Harry onward, a broad smile of encouragement
on his face.
P a g e | 802
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“… has it gone?”
“Oh yes!” said Dumbledore. “Yes, he destroyed it.
Your soul is whole, and completely your own, Harry.”
“But then …”
Harry glanced over his shoulder to where the small,
maimed creature trembled under the chair.
“What is that, Professor?”
“Something that is beyond either of our help,” said
Dumbledore.
“But if Voldemort used the Killing Curse,” Harry
started again, “and nobody died for me this time —
how can I be alive?”

www.ztcprep.com

“I think you know,” said Dumbledore. “Think back.
Remember what he did, in his ignorance, in his greed
and his cruelty.”
Harry thought. He let his gaze drift over his
surroundings. If it was indeed a palace in which they
sat, it was an odd one, with chairs set in little rows
and bits of railing here and there, and still, he and
Dumbledore and the stunted creature under the chair
were the only beings there. Then the answer rose to
his lips easily, without effort.
“He took my blood,” said Harry.
“Precisely!” said Dumbledore. “He took your blood and
rebuilt his living body with it! Your blood in his veins,
Harry, Lily’s protection inside both of you! He tethered
you to life while he lives!”
P a g e | 803
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“I live … while he lives? But I thought … I thought it was the other way
round! I thought we both had to
die? Or is it the same thing?”
He was distracted by the whimpering and thumping

www.ztcprep.com

of the agonized creature behind them and glanced
back at it yet again.
“Are you sure we can’t do anything?”
“There is no help possible.”
“Then explain … more,” said Harry, and Dumbledore
smiled.
“You were the seventh Horcrux, Harry, the Horcrux
he never meant to make. He had rendered his soul so
unstable that it broke apart when he committed those
acts of unspeakable evil, the murder of your parents,
the attempted killing of a child. But what escaped
from that room was even less than he knew. He left
more than his body behind. He left part of himself
latched to you, the would-be victim who had survived.
“And his knowledge remained woefully incomplete,
Harry! That which Voldemort does not value, he takes
no trouble to comprehend. Of house-elves and
children’s tales, of love, loyalty, and innocence,
Voldemort knows and understands nothing. Nothing.
That they all have a power beyond his own, a power

www.ztcprep.com

beyond the reach of any magic, is a truth he has
never grasped.
“He took your blood believing it would strengthen
him. He took into his body a tiny part of the
enchantment your mother laid upon you when she
died for you. His body keeps her sacrifice alive, and
while that enchantment survives, so do you and so
does Voldemort’s one last hope for himself.”
P a g e | 804
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
Dumbledore smiled at Harry, and Harry stared at
him.
“And you knew this? You knew — all along?”
“I guessed. But my guesses have usually been good,”
said Dumbledore happily, and they sat in silence for
what seemed like a long time, while the creature
behind them continued to whimper and tremble.
“There’s more,” said Harry. “There’s more to it. Why
did my wand break the wand he borrowed?”
“As to that, I cannot be sure.”

www.ztcprep.com

“Have a guess, then,” said Harry, and Dumbledore
laughed.
“What you must understand, Harry, is that you and
Lord Voldemort have journeyed together into realms
of magic hitherto unknown and untested. But here is
what I think happened, and it is unprecedented, and
no wandmaker could, I think, ever have predicted it
or explained it to Voldemort.
“Without meaning to, as you now know, Lord
Voldemort doubled the bond between you when he
returned to a human form. A part of his soul was still
attached to yours, and, thinking to strengthen
himself, he took a part of your mother’s sacrifice into
himself. If he could only have understood the precise
and terrible power of that sacrifice, he would not,
perhaps, have dared to touch your blood. … But then,
if he had been able to understand, he could not be
Lord Voldemort, and might never have murdered at
all.
“Having ensured this two-fold connection, having

www.ztcprep.com

wrapped your destinies together more securely than
P a g e | 805
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
ever two wizards were joined in history, Voldemort
proceeded to attack you with a wand that shared a
core with yours. And now something very strange
happened, as we know. The cores reacted in a way
that Lord Voldemort, who never knew that your wand
was twin of his, had never expected.
“He was more afraid than you were that night, Harry.
You had accepted, even embraced, the possibility of
death, something Lord Voldemort has never been able
to do. Your courage won, your wand overpowered his.
And in doing so, something happened between those
wands, something that echoed the relationship
between their masters.
“I believe that your wand imbibed some of the power
and qualities of Voldemort’s wand that night, which is
to say that it contained a little of Voldemort himself.
So your wand recognized him when he pursued you,

www.ztcprep.com

recognized a man who was both kin and mortal
enemy, and it regurgitated some of his own magic
against him, magic much more powerful than
anything Lucius’s wand had ever performed. Your
wand now contained the power of your enormous
courage and of Voldemort’s own deadly skill: What
chance did that poor stick of Lucius Malfoy’s stand?”
“But if my wand was so powerful, how come
Hermione was able to break it?” asked Harry.
“My dear boy, its remarkable effects were directed
only at Voldemort, who had tampered so ill-advisedly
with the deepest laws of magic. Only toward him was
that wand abnormally powerful. Otherwise it was a
wand like any other … though a good one, I am sure,”
Dumbledore finished kindly.
P a g e | 806
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
Harry sat in thought for a long time, or perhaps
seconds. It was very hard to be sure of things like
time, here.

www.ztcprep.com

“He killed me with your wand.”
“He failed to kill you with my wand,” Dumbledore
corrected Harry. “I think we can agree that you are
not dead — though, of course,” he added, as if fearing
he had been discourteous, “I do not minimize your
sufferings, which I am sure were severe.”
“I feel great at the moment, though,” said Harry,
looking down at his clean, unblemished hands.
“Where are we, exactly?”
“Well, I was going to ask you that,” said Dumbledore,
looking around. “Where would you say that we are?”
Until Dumbledore had asked, Harry had not known.
Now, however, he found that he had an answer ready
to give.
“It looks,” he said slowly, “like King’s Cross station.
Except a lot cleaner and empty, and there are no
trains as far as I can see.”
“King’s Cross station!” Dumbledore was chuckling
immoderately. “Good gracious, really?”
“Well, where do you think we are?” asked Harry, a

www.ztcprep.com

little defensively.
“My dear boy, I have no idea. This is, as they say,
your party.”
Harry had no idea what this meant; Dumbledore was
being infuriating. He glared at him, then remembered
P a g e | 807
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
a much more pressing question than that of their
current location.
“The Deathly Hallows,” he said, and he was glad to
see that the words wiped the smile from
Dumbledore’s face.
“Ah, yes,” he said. He even looked a little worried.
“Well?”
For the first time since Harry had met Dumbledore,
he looked less than an old man, much less. He looked
fleetingly like a small boy caught in wrongdoing.
“Can you forgive me?” he said. “Can you forgive me
for not trusting you? For not telling you? Harry, I only
feared that you would fail as I had failed. I only

www.ztcprep.com

dreaded that you would make my mistakes. I crave
your pardon, Harry. I have known, for some time now,
that you are the better man.”
“What are you talking about?” asked Harry, startled
by Dumbledore’s tone, by the sudden tears in his
eyes.
“The Hallows, the Hallows,” murmured Dumbledore.
“A desperate man’s dream!”
“But they’re real!”
“Real, and dangerous, and a lure for fools,” said
Dumbledore. “And I was such a fool. But you know,
don’t you? I have no secrets from you anymore. You
know.”
“What do I know?”
P a g e | 808
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
Dumbledore turned his whole body to face Harry, and tears still sparkled in
the brilliantly blue eyes.
“Master of death, Harry, master of Death! Was I
better, ultimately, than Voldemort?”
“Of course you were,” said Harry. “Of course — how

www.ztcprep.com

can you ask that? You never killed if you could avoid
it!”
“True, true,” said Dumbledore, and he was like a
child seeking reassurance. “Yet I too sought a way to
conquer death, Harry.”
“Not the way he did,” said Harry. After all his anger at
Dumbledore, how odd it was to sit here, beneath the
high, vaulted ceiling, and defend Dumbledore from
himself. “Hallows, not Horcruxes.”
“Hallows,” murmured Dumbledore, “not Horcruxes.
Precisely.”
There was a pause. The creature behind them
whimpered, but Harry no longer looked around.
“Grindelwald was looking for them too?” he asked.
Dumbledore closed his eyes for a moment and
nodded.
“It was the thing, above all, that drew us together,” he
said quietly. “Two clever, arrogant boys with a shared
obsession. He wanted to come to Godric’s Hollow, as I
am sure you have guessed, because of the grave of

www.ztcprep.com

Ignotus Peverell. He wanted to explore the place the
third brother had died.”
“So it’s true?” asked Harry. “All of it? The Peverell
brothers —”
P a g e | 809
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“— were the three brothers of the tale,” said
Dumbledore, nodding. “Oh yes, I think so. Whether
they met Death on a lonely road … I think it more
likely that the Peverell brothers were simply gifted,
dangerous wizards who succeeded in creating those
powerful objects. The story of them being Death’s own
Hallows seems to me the sort of legend that might
have sprung up around such creations.
“The Cloak, as you know now, traveled down through
the ages, father to son, mother to daughter, right
down to Ignotus’s last living descendant, who was
born, as Ignotus was, in the village of Godric’s
Hollow.”
Dumbledore smiled at Harry.

www.ztcprep.com

“Me?”
“You. You have guessed, I know, why the Cloak was
in my possession on the night your parents died.
James had showed it to me just a few days
previously. It explained much of his undetected
wrong-doing at school! I could hardly believe what I
was seeing. I asked to borrow it, to examine it. I had
long since given up my dream of uniting the Hallows,
but I could not resist, could not help taking a closer
look. … It was a Cloak the likes of which I had never
seen, immensely old, perfect in every respect … and
then your father died, and I had two Hallows at last,
all to myself!”
His tone was unbearably bitter.
“The Cloak wouldn’t have helped them survive,
though,” Harry said quickly. “Voldemort knew where
my mum and dad were. The Cloak couldn’t have
made them curse-proof.”
P a g e | 810
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling

www.ztcprep.com

“True,” sighed Dumbledore. “True.”
Harry waited, but Dumbledore did not speak, so he
prompted him.
“So you’d given up looking for the Hallows when you
saw the Cloak?”
“Oh yes,” said Dumbledore faintly. It seemed that he
forced himself to meet Harry’s eyes. “You know what
happened. You know. You cannot despise me more
than I despise myself.”
“But I don’t despise you —”
“Then you should,” said Dumbledore. He drew a deep
breath. “You know the secret of my sister’s ill health,
what those Muggles did, what she became. You know
how my poor father sought revenge, and paid the
price, died in Azkaban. You know how my mother
gave up her own life to care for Ariana.
“I resented it, Harry.”
Dumbledore stated it baldly, coldly. He was looking
now over the top of Harry’s head, into the distance.
“I was gifted, I was brilliant. I wanted to escape. I

www.ztcprep.com

wanted to shine. I wanted glory.
“Do not misunderstand me,” he said, and pain
crossed the face so that he looked ancient again. “I
loved them. I loved my parents, I loved my brother
and my sister, but I was selfish, Harry, more selfish
than you, who are a remarkably selfless person, could
possibly imagine.
“So that, when my mother died, and I was left the
responsibility of a damaged sister and a wayward
P a g e | 811
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
brother, I returned to my village in anger and
bitterness. Trapped and wasted, I thought! And then,
of course, he came. …”
Dumbledore looked directly into Harry’s eyes again.
“Grindelwald. You cannot imagine how his ideas
caught me, Harry, inflamed me. Muggles forced into
subservience. We wizards triumphant. Grindelwald
and I, the glorious young leaders of the revolution.
“Oh, I had a few scruples. I assuaged my conscience

www.ztcprep.com

with empty words. It would all be for the greater good,
and any harm done would be repaid a hundredfold in
benefits for wizards. Did I know, in my heart of
hearts, what Gellert Grindelwald was? I think I did,
but I closed my eyes. If the plans we were making
came to fruition, all my dreams would come true.
“And at the heart of our schemes, the Deathly
Hallows! How they fascinated him, how they
fascinated both of us! The unbeatable wand, the
weapon that would lead us to power! The
Resurrection Stone — to him, though I pretended not
to know it, it meant an army of Inferi! To me, I
confess, it meant the return of my parents, and the
lifting of all responsibility from my shoulders.
“And the Cloak … somehow, we never discussed the
Cloak much, Harry. Both of us could conceal
ourselves well enough without the Cloak, the true
magic of which, of course, is that it can be used to
protect and shield others as well as its owner. I
thought that, if we ever found it, it might be useful in

www.ztcprep.com

hiding Ariana, but our interest in the Cloak was
mainly that it completed the trio, for the legend said
that the man who united all three objects would then
be truly master of death, which we took to mean
‘invincible.’
P a g e | 812
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“Invincible masters of death, Grindelwald and
Dumbledore! Two months of insanity, of cruel
dreams, and neglect of the only two members of my
family left to me.
“And then … you know what happened. Reality
returned in the form of my rough, unlettered, and
infinitely more admirable brother. I did not want to
hear the truths he shouted at me. I did not want to
hear that I could not set forth to seek Hallows with a
fragile and unstable sister in tow.
“The argument became a fight. Grindelwald lost
control. That which I had always sensed in him,
though I pretended not to, now sprang into terrible

www.ztcprep.com

being. And Ariana … after all my mother’s care and
caution … lay dead upon the floor.”
Dumbledore gave a little gasp and began to cry in
earnest. Harry reached out and was glad to find that
he could touch him: He gripped his arm tightly and
Dumbledore gradually regained control.
“Well, Grindelwald fled, as anyone but I could have
predicted. He vanished, with his plans for seizing
power, and his schemes for Muggle torture, and his
dreams of the Deathly Hallows, dreams in which I
had encouraged him and helped him. He ran, while I
was left to bury my sister, and learn to live with my
guilt and my terrible grief, the price of my shame.
“Years passed. There were rumors about him. They
said he had procured a wand of immense power. I,
meanwhile, was offered the post of Minister of Magic,
not once, but several times. Naturally, I refused. I had
learned that I was not to be trusted with power.”
“But you’d have been better, much better, than Fudge
or Scrimgeour!” burst out Harry.

www.ztcprep.com

P a g e | 813
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“Would I?” asked Dumbledore heavily. “I am not so
sure. I had proven, as a very young man, that power
was my weakness and my temptation. It is a curious
thing, Harry, but perhaps those who are best suited
to power are those who have never sought it. Those
who, like you, have leadership thrust upon them, and
take up the mantle because they must, and find to
their own surprise that they wear it well.
“I was safer at Hogwarts. I think I was a good teacher
—”
“You were the best —”
“— you are very kind, Harry. But while I busied
myself with the training of young wizards,
Grindelwald was raising an army. They say he feared
me, and perhaps he did, but less, I think, than I
feared him.
“Oh, not death,” said Dumbledore, in answer to
Harry’s questioning look. “Not what he could do to me

www.ztcprep.com

magically. I knew that we were evenly matched,
perhaps that I was a shade more skillful. It was the
truth I feared. You see, I never knew which of us, in
that last, horrific fight, had actually cast the curse
that killed my sister. You may call me cowardly: You
would be right. Harry, I dreaded beyond all things the
knowledge that it had been I who brought about her
death, not merely through my arrogance and
stupidity, but that I actually struck the blow that
snuffed out her life.
“I think he knew it, I think he knew what frightened
me. I delayed meeting him until finally, it would have
been too shameful to resist any longer. People were
dying and he seemed unstoppable, and I had to do
what I could.
P a g e | 814
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“Well, you know what happened next. I won the duel.
I won the wand.”
Another silence. Harry did not ask whether

www.ztcprep.com

Dumbledore had ever found out who struck Ariana
dead. He did not want to know, and even less did he
want Dumbledore to have to tell him. At last he knew
what Dumbledore would have seen when he looked in
the Mirror of Erised, and why Dumbledore had been
so understanding of the fascination it had exercised
over Harry.
They sat in silence for a long time, and the
whimperings of the creature behind them barely
disturbed Harry anymore.
At last he said, “Grindelwald tried to stop Voldemort
going after the wand. He lied, you know, pretended he
had never had it.”
Dumbledore nodded, looking down at his lap, tears
still glittering on the crooked nose.
“They say he showed remorse in later years, alone in
his cell at Nurmengard. I hope that it is true. I would
like to think he did feel the horror and shame of what
he had done. Perhaps that lie to Voldemort was his
attempt to make amends … to prevent Voldemort

www.ztcprep.com

from taking the Hallow …”
“… or maybe from breaking into your tomb?”
suggested Harry, and Dumbledore dabbed his eyes.
After another short pause Harry said, “You tried to
use the Resurrection Stone.”
Dumbledore nodded.
P a g e | 815
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“When I discovered it, after all those years, buried in the abandoned home
of the Gaunts — the Hallow I
had craved most of all, though in my youth I had
wanted it for very different reasons — I lost my head,
Harry. I quite forgot that it was now a Horcrux, that
the ring was sure to carry a curse. I picked it up, and
I put it on, and for a second I imagined that I was
about to see Ariana, and my mother, and my father,
and to tell them how very, very sorry I was. …
“I was such a fool, Harry. After all those years I had
learned nothing. I was unworthy to unite the Deathly
Hallows, I had proved it time and again, and here was
final proof.”

www.ztcprep.com

“Why?” said Harry. “It was natural! You wanted to see
them again. What’s wrong with that?”
“Maybe a man in a million could unite the Hallows,
Harry. I was fit only to possess the meanest of them,
the least extraordinary. I was fit to own the Elder
Wand, and not to boast of it, and not to kill with it. I
was permitted to tame and to use it, because I took it,
not for gain, but to save others from it.
“But the Cloak, I took out of vain curiosity, and so it
could never have worked for me as it works for you,
its true owner. The stone I would have used in an
attempt to drag back those who are at peace, rather
than to enable my self-sacrifice, as you did. You are
the worthy possessor of the Hallows.”
Dumbledore patted Harry’s hand, and Harry looked
up at the old man and smiled; he could not help
himself. How could he remain angry with Dumbledore
now?
“Why did you have to make it so difficult?”
P a g e | 816

www.ztcprep.com

Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
Dumbledore’s smile was tremulous.
“I am afraid I counted on Miss Granger to slow you
up, Harry. I was afraid that your hot head might
dominate your good heart. I was scared that, if
presented outright with the facts about those
tempting objects, you might seize the Hallows as I
did, at the wrong time, for the wrong reasons. If you
laid hands on them, I wanted you to possess them
safely. You are the true master of death, because the
true master does not seek to run away from Death.
He accepts that he must die, and understands that
there are far, far worse things in the living world than
dying.”
“And Voldemort never knew about the Hallows?”
“I do not think so, because he did not recognize the
Resurrection Stone he turned into a Horcrux. But
even if he had known about them, Harry, I doubt that
he would have been interested in any except the first.
He would not think that he needed the Cloak, and as

www.ztcprep.com

for the stone, whom would he want to bring back
from the dead? He fears the dead. He does not love.”
“But you expected him to go after the wand?”
“I have been sure that he would try, ever since your
wand beat Voldemort’s in the graveyard of Little
Hangleton. At first, he was afraid that you had
conquered him by superior skill. Once he had
kidnapped Ollivander, however, he discovered the
existence of the twin cores. He thought that explained
everything. Yet the borrowed wand did no better
against yours! So Voldemort, instead of asking
himself what quality it was in you that had made your
wand so strong, what gift you possessed that he did
not, naturally set out to find the one wand that, they
said, would beat any other. For him, the Elder Wand
P a g e | 817
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
has become an obsession to rival his obsession with you. He believes that
the Elder Wand removes his last
weakness and makes him truly invincible. Poor
Severus …”

www.ztcprep.com

“If you planned your death with Snape, you meant
him to end up with the Elder Wand, didn’t you?”
“I admit that was my intention,” said Dumbledore,
“but it did not work as I intended, did it?”
“No,” said Harry. “That bit didn’t work out.”
The creature behind them jerked and moaned, and
Harry and Dumbledore sat without talking for the
longest time yet. The realization of what would
happen next settled gradually over Harry in the long
minutes, like softly falling snow.
“I’ve got to go back, haven’t I?”
“That is up to you.”
“I’ve got a choice?”
“Oh yes.” Dumbledore smiled at him. “We are in
King’s Cross, you say? I think that if you decided not
to go back, you would be able to … let’s say … board
a train.”
“And where would it take me?”
“On,” said Dumbledore simply.
Silence again.

www.ztcprep.com

“Voldemort’s got the Elder Wand.”
“True. Voldemort has the Elder Wand.”
P a g e | 818
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“But you want me to go back?”
“I think,” said Dumbledore, “that if you choose to
return, there is a chance that he may be finished for
good. I cannot promise it. But I know this, Harry, that
you have less to fear from returning here than he
does.”
Harry glanced again at the raw-looking thing that
trembled and choked in the shadow beneath the
distant chair.
“Do not pity the dead, Harry. Pity the living, and,
above all, those who live without love. By returning,
you may ensure that fewer souls are maimed, fewer
families are torn apart. If that seems to you a worthy
goal, then we say good-bye for the present.”
Harry nodded and sighed. Leaving this place would
not be nearly as hard as walking into the forest had

www.ztcprep.com

been, but it was warm and light and peaceful here,
and he knew that he was heading back to pain and
the fear of more loss. He stood up, and Dumbledore
did the same, and they looked for a long moment into
each other’s faces.
“Tell me one last thing,” said Harry. “Is this real? Or
has this been happening inside my head?”
Dumbledore beamed at him, and his voice sounded
loud and strong in Harry’s ears even though the
bright mist was descending again, obscuring his
figure.
“Of course it is happening inside your head, Harry,
but why on earth should that mean that it is not
real?”
P a g e | 819
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling

www.ztcprep.com

THE FLAW IN THE PLAN
He was lying facedown on the ground again. The
smell of the forest filled his nostrils. He could feel the
cold hard ground beneath his cheek, and the hinge of
his glasses, which had been knocked sideways by the
fall, cutting into his temple. Every inch of him ached,
and the place where the Killing Curse had hit him felt
like the bruise of an iron-clad punch. He did not stir,
but remained exactly where he had fallen, with his
left arm bent out at an awkward angle and his mouth
gaping.
He had expected to hear cheers of triumph and
jubilation at his death, but instead hurried footsteps,
whispers, and solicitous murmurs filled the air.
“My Lord … my Lord …”
It was Bellatrix’s voice, and she spoke as if to a lover.

www.ztcprep.com

Harry did not dare open his eyes, but allowed his
other senses to explore his predicament. He knew
that his wand was still stowed beneath his robes
because he could feel it pressed between his chest
P a g e | 820
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
and the ground. A slight cushioning effect in the area of his stomach told
him that the Invisibility Cloak was
also there, stuffed out of sight.
“My Lord …”
“That will do,” said Voldemort’s voice.
More footsteps: Several people were backing away
from the same spot. Desperate to see what was
happening and why, Harry opened his eyes by a
millimeter.
Voldemort seemed to be getting to his feet. Various
Death Eaters were hurrying away from him, returning
to the crowd lining the clearing. Bellatrix alone
remained behind, kneeling beside Voldemort.
Harry closed his eyes again and considered what he
had seen. The Death Eaters had been huddled

www.ztcprep.com

around Voldemort, who seemed to have fallen to the
ground. Something had happened when he had hit
Harry with the Killing Curse. Had Voldemort too
collapsed? It seemed like it. And both of them had
fallen briefly unconscious and both of them had now
returned. …
“My Lord, let me —”
“I do not require assistance,” said Voldemort coldly,
and though he could not see it, Harry pictured
Bellatrix withdrawing a helpful hand. “The boy … Is
he dead?”
There was complete silence in the clearing. Nobody
approached Harry, but he felt their concentrated gaze;
it seemed to press him harder into the ground, and he
was terrified a finger or an eyelid might twitch.
P a g e | 821
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“You,” said Voldemort, and there was a bang and a
small shriek of pain. “Examine him. Tell me whether
he is dead.”

www.ztcprep.com

Harry did not know who had been sent to verify. He
could only lie there, with his heart thumping
traitorously, and wait to be examined, but at the
same time noting, small comfort though it was, that
Voldemort was wary of approaching him, that
Voldemort suspected that all had not gone to plan. …
Hands, softer than he had been expecting, touched
Harry’s face, pulled back an eyelid, crept beneath his
shirt, down to his chest, and felt his heart. He could
hear the woman’s fast breathing, her long hair tickled
his face. He knew that she could feel the steady
pounding of life against his ribs.
“Is Draco alive? Is he in the castle?”
The whisper was barely audible; her lips were an inch
from his ear, her head bent so low that her long hair
shielded his face from the onlookers.
“Yes, ” he breathed back.
He felt the hand on his chest contract; her nails
pierced him. Then it was withdrawn. She had sat up.
“He is dead!” Narcissa Malfoy called to the watchers.

www.ztcprep.com

And now they shouted, now they yelled in triumph
and stamped their feet, and through his eyelids,
Harry saw bursts of red and silver light shoot into the
air in celebration.
Still feigning death on the ground, he understood.
Narcissa knew that the only way she would be
permitted to enter Hogwarts, and find her son, was as
P a g e | 822
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
part of the conquering army. She no longer cared
whether Voldemort won.
“You see?” screeched Voldemort over the tumult.
“Harry Potter is dead by my hand, and no man alive
can threaten me now! Watch! Crucio!”
Harry had been expecting it, knew his body would not
be allowed to remain unsullied upon the forest floor;
it must be subjected to humiliation to prove
Voldemort’s victory. He was lifted into the air, and it
took all his determination to remain limp, yet the pain
he expected did not come. He was thrown once, twice,

www.ztcprep.com

three times into the air: His glasses flew off and he
felt his wand slide a little beneath his robes, but he
kept himself floppy and lifeless, and when he fell to
the ground for the last time, the clearing echoed with
jeers and shrieks of laughter.
“Now,” said Voldemort, “we go to the castle, and show
them what has become of their hero. Who shall drag
the body? No — Wait —”
There was a fresh outbreak of laughter, and after a
few moments Harry felt the ground trembling beneath
him.
“You carry him,” Voldemort said. “He will be nice and
visible in your arms, will he not? Pick up your little
friend, Hagrid. And the glasses — put on the glasses
— he must be recognizable —”
Someone slammed Harry’s glasses back onto his face
with deliberate force, but the enormous hands that
lifted him into the air were exceedingly gentle. Harry
could feel Hagrid’s arms trembling with the force of
his heaving sobs; great tears splashed down upon

www.ztcprep.com

him as Hagrid cradled Harry in his arms, and Harry
P a g e | 823
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
did not dare, by movement or word, to intimate to
Hagrid that all was not, yet, lost.
“Move,” said Voldemort, and Hagrid stumbled
forward, forcing his way through the close-growing
trees, back through the forest. Branches caught at
Harry’s hair and robes, but he lay quiescent, his
mouth lolling open, his eyes shut, and in the
darkness, while the Death Eaters crowed all around
them, and while Hagrid sobbed blindly, nobody
looked to see whether a pulse beat in the exposed
neck of Harry Potter. …
The two giants crashed along behind the Death
Eaters; Harry could hear trees creaking and falling as
they passed; they made so much din that birds rose
shrieking into the sky, and even the jeers of the Death
Eaters were drowned. The victorious procession
marched on toward the open ground, and after a

www.ztcprep.com

while Harry could tell, by the lightening of the
darkness through his closed eyelids, that the trees
were beginning to thin.
“BANE!”
Hagrid’s unexpected bellow nearly forced Harry’s eyes
open. “Happy now, are yeh, that yeh didn’ fight, yeh
cowardly bunch o’ nags? Are yeh happy Harry Potter’s
— d-dead … ?”
Hagrid could not continue, but broke down in fresh
tears. Harry wondered how many centaurs were
watching their procession pass; he dared not open his
eyes to look. Some of the Death Eaters called insults
at the centaurs as they left them behind. A little later,
Harry sensed, by a freshening of the air, that they
had reached the edge of the forest.
“Stop.”
P a g e | 824
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
Harry thought that Hagrid must have been forced to
obey Voldemort’s command, because he lurched a

www.ztcprep.com

little. And now a chill settled over them where they
stood, and Harry heard the rasping breath of the
dementors that patrolled the outer trees. They would
not affect him now. The fact of his own survival
burned inside him, a talisman against them, as
though his father’s stag kept guardian in his heart.
Someone passed close by Harry, and he knew that it
was Voldemort himself because he spoke a moment
later, his voice magically magnified so that it swelled
through the grounds, crashing upon Harry’s
eardrums.
“Harry Potter is dead. He was killed as he ran away,
trying to save himself while you lay down your lives
for him. We bring you his body as proof that your
hero is gone.
“The battle is won. You have lost half of your fighters.
My Death Eaters outnumber you, and the Boy Who
Lived is finished. There must be no more war. Anyone
who continues to resist, man, woman, or child, will be
slaughtered, as will every member of their family.

www.ztcprep.com

Come out of the castle now, kneel before me, and you
shall be spared. Your parents and children, your
brothers and sisters will live and be forgiven, and you
will join me in the new world we shall build together.”
There was silence in the grounds and from the castle.
Voldemort was so close to him that Harry did not dare
open his eyes again.
“Come,” said Voldemort, and Harry heard him move
ahead, and Hagrid was forced to follow. Now Harry
opened his eyes a fraction, and saw Voldemort
striding in front of them, wearing the great snake
Nagini around his shoulders, now free of her
P a g e | 825
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
enchanted cage. But Harry had no possibility of
extracting the wand concealed under his robes
without being noticed by the Death Eaters, who
marched on either side of them through the slowly
lightening darkness. …
“Harry,” sobbed Hagrid. “Oh, Harry … Harry …”

www.ztcprep.com

Harry shut his eyes tight again. He knew that they
were approaching the castle and strained his ears to
distinguish, above the gleeful voices of the Death
Eaters and their tramping footsteps, signs of life from
those within.
“Stop.”
The Death Eaters came to a halt: Harry heard them
spreading out in a line facing the open front doors of
the school. He could see, even through his closed lids,
the reddish glow that meant light streamed upon him
from the entrance hall. He waited. Any moment, the
people for whom he had tried to die would see him,
lying apparently dead, in Hagrid’s arms.
“NO!”
The scream was the more terrible because he had
never expected or dreamed that Professor McGonagall
could make such a sound. He heard another woman
laughing nearby, and knew that Bellatrix gloried in
McGonagall’s despair. He squinted again for a single
second and saw the open doorway filling with people,

www.ztcprep.com

as the survivors of the battle came out onto the front
steps to face their vanquishers and see the truth of
Harry’s death for themselves. He saw Voldemort
standing a little in front of him, stroking Nagini’s
head with a single white finger. He closed his eyes
again.
P a g e | 826
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“No!”
“No!”
“Harry! HARRY!”
Ron’s, Hermione’s, and Ginny’s voices were worse
than McGonagall’s; Harry wanted nothing more than
to call back, yet he made himself lie silent, and their
cries acted like a trigger; the crowd of survivors took
up the cause, screaming and yelling abuse at the
Death Eaters, until —
“SILENCE!” cried Voldemort, and there was a bang
and a flash of bright light, and silence was forced
upon them all. “It is over! Set him down, Hagrid, at

www.ztcprep.com

my feet, where he belongs!”
Harry felt himself lowered onto the grass.
“You see?” said Voldemort, and Harry felt him striding
backward and forward right beside the place where he
lay. “Harry Potter is dead! Do you understand now,
deluded ones? He was nothing, ever, but a boy who
relied on others to sacrifice themselves for him!”
“He beat you!” yelled Ron, and the charm broke, and
the defenders of Hogwarts were shouting and
screaming again until a second, more powerful bang
extinguished their voices once more.
“He was killed while trying to sneak out of the castle
grounds,” said Voldemort, and there was relish in his
voice for the lie, “killed while trying to save himself —”
But Voldemort broke off: Harry heard a scuffle and a
shout, then another bang, a flash of light, and a grunt
of pain; he opened his eyes an infinitesimal amount.
Someone had broken free of the crowd and charged at
P a g e | 827
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling

www.ztcprep.com

Voldemort: Harry saw the figure hit the ground,
Disarmed, Voldemort throwing the challenger’s wand
aside and laughing.
“And who is this?” he said in his soft snake’s hiss.
“Who has volunteered to demonstrate what happens
to those who continue to fight when the battle is
lost?”
Bellatrix gave a delighted laugh.
“It is Neville Longbottom, my Lord! The boy who has
been giving the Carrows so much trouble! The son of
the Aurors, remember?”
“Ah, yes, I remember,” said Voldemort, looking down
at Neville, who was struggling back to his feet,
unarmed and unprotected, standing in the no-man’sland between the survivors and the Death Eaters.
“But you are a pureblood, aren’t you, my brave boy?”
Voldemort asked Neville, who stood facing him, his
empty hands curled in fists.
“So what if I am?” said Neville loudly.
“You show spirit and bravery, and you come of noble

www.ztcprep.com

stock. You will make a very valuable Death Eater. We
need your kind, Neville Longbottom.”
“I’ll join you when hell freezes over,” said Neville.
“Dumbledore’s Army!” he shouted, and there was an
answering cheer from the crowd, whom Voldemort’s
Silencing Charms seemed unable to hold.
“Very well,” said Voldemort, and Harry heard more
danger in the silkiness of his voice than in the most
powerful curse. “If that is your choice, Longbottom,
we revert to the original plan. On your head,” he said
quietly, “be it.”
P a g e | 828
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
Still watching through his lashes, Harry saw
Voldemort wave his wand. Seconds later, out of one of
the castle’s shattered windows, something that looked
like a misshapen bird flew through the half light and
landed in Voldemort’s hand. He shook the mildewed
object by its pointed end and it dangled, empty and
ragged: the Sorting Hat.

www.ztcprep.com

“There will be no more Sorting at Hogwarts School,”
said Voldemort. “There will be no more Houses. The
emblem, shield, and colors of my noble ancestor,
Salazar Slytherin, will suffice for everyone. Won’t
they, Neville Longbottom?”
He pointed his wand at Neville, who grew rigid and
still, then forced the hat onto Neville’s head, so that it
slipped down below his eyes. There were movements
from the watching crowd in front of the castle, and as
one, the Death Eaters raised their wands, holding the
fighters of Hogwarts at bay.
“Neville here is now going to demonstrate what
happens to anyone foolish enough to continue to
oppose me,” said Voldemort, and with a flick of his
wand, he caused the Sorting Hat to burst into flames.
Screams split the dawn, and Neville was aflame,
rooted to the spot, unable to move, and Harry could
not bear it: He must act —
And then many things happened at the same
moment.

www.ztcprep.com

They heard uproar from the distant boundary of the
school as what sounded like hundreds of people came
swarming over the out-of-sight walls and pelted
toward the castle, uttering loud war cries. At the
same time, Grawp came lumbering around the side of
the castle and yelled, “HAGGER!” His cry was
P a g e | 829
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
answered by roars from Voldemort’s giants: They ran at Grawp like bull
elephants, making the earth quake.
Then came hooves and the twangs of bows, and
arrows were suddenly falling amongst the Death
Eaters, who broke ranks, shouting their surprise.
Harry pulled the Invisibility Cloak from inside his
robes, swung it over himself, and sprang to his feet,
as Neville moved too.
In one swift, fluid motion, Neville broke free of the
Body-Bind Curse upon him; the flaming hat fell off
him and he drew from its depths something silver,
with a glittering, rubied handle —
The slash of the silver blade could not be heard over

www.ztcprep.com

the roar of the oncoming crowd or the sounds of the
clashing giants or of the stampeding centaurs, and
yet it seemed to draw every eye. With a single stroke
Neville sliced off the great snake’s head, which spun
high into the air, gleaming in the light flooding from
the entrance hall, and Voldemort’s mouth was open
in a scream of fury that nobody could hear, and the
snake’s body thudded to the ground at his feet —
Hidden beneath the Invisibility Cloak, Harry cast a
Shield Charm between Neville and Voldemort before
the latter could raise his wand. Then, over the
screams and the roars and the thunderous stamps of
the battling giants, Hagrid’s yell came loudest of all.
“HARRY!” Hagrid shouted. “HARRY — WHERE’S
HARRY?”
Chaos reigned. The charging centaurs were scattering
the Death Eaters, everyone was fleeing the giants’
stamping feet, and nearer and nearer thundered the
reinforcements that had come from who knew where;
Harry saw great winged creatures soaring around the

www.ztcprep.com

heads of Voldemort’s giants, thestrals and Buckbeak
P a g e | 830
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
the hippogriff scratching at their eyes while Grawp punched and pummeled
them; and now the wizards,
defenders of Hogwarts and Death Eaters alike, were
being forced back into the castle. Harry was shooting
jinxes and curses at any Death Eater he could see,
and they crumpled, not knowing what or who had hit
them, and their bodies were trampled by the
retreating crowd.
Still hidden beneath the Invisibility Cloak, Harry was
buffeted into the entrance hall: He was searching for
Voldemort and saw him across the room, firing spells
from his wand as he backed into the Great Hall, still
screaming instructions to his followers as he sent
curses flying left and right; Harry cast more Shield
Charms, and Voldemort’s would-be victims, Seamus
Finnigan and Hannah Abbott, darted past him into
the Great Hall, where they joined the fight already
flourishing inside it.

www.ztcprep.com

And now there were more, even more people storming
up the front steps, and Harry saw Charlie Weasley
overtaking Horace Slughorn, who was still wearing
his emerald pajamas. They seemed to have returned
at the head of what looked like the families and
friends of every Hogwarts student who had remained
to fight, along with the shopkeepers and homeowners
of Hogsmeade. The centaurs Bane, Ronan, and
Magorian burst into the hall with a great clatter of
hooves, as behind Harry the door that led to the
kitchens was blasted off its hinges.
The house-elves of Hogwarts swarmed into the
entrance hall, screaming and waving carving knives
and cleavers, and at their head, the locket of Regulus
Black bouncing on his chest, was Kreacher, his
bullfrog’s voice audible even above this din: “Fight!
Fight! Fight for my Master, defender of house-elves!
P a g e | 831
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
Fight the Dark Lord, in the name of brave Regulus!

www.ztcprep.com

Fight!”
They were hacking and stabbing at the ankles and
shins of Death Eaters, their tiny faces alive with
malice, and everywhere Harry looked Death Eaters
were folding under sheer weight of numbers,
overcome by spells, dragging arrows from wounds,
stabbed in the leg by elves, or else simply attempting
to escape, but swallowed by the oncoming horde.
But it was not over yet: Harry sped between duelers,
past struggling prisoners, and into the Great Hall.
Voldemort was in the center of the battle, and he was
striking and smiting all within reach. Harry could not
get a clear shot, but fought his way nearer, still
invisible, and the Great Hall became more and more
crowded as everyone who could walk forced their way
inside.
Harry saw Yaxley slammed to the floor by George and
Lee Jordan, saw Dolohov fall with a scream at
Flitwick’s hands, saw Walden Macnair thrown across
the room by Hagrid, hit the stone wall opposite, and

www.ztcprep.com

slide unconscious to the ground. He saw Ron and
Neville bringing down Fenrir Greyback, Aberforth
Stunning Rookwood, Arthur and Percy flooring
Thicknesse, and Lucius and Narcissa Malfoy running
through the crowd, not even attempting to fight,
screaming for their son.
Voldemort was now dueling McGonagall, Slughorn,
and Kingsley all at once, and there was cold hatred in
his face as they wove and ducked around him, unable
to finish him —
Bellatrix was still fighting too, fifty yards away from
Voldemort, and like her master she dueled three at
P a g e | 832
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
once: Hermione, Ginny, and Luna, all battling their hardest, but Bellatrix
was equal to them, and Harry’s
attention was diverted as a Killing Curse shot so close
to Ginny that she missed death by an inch —
He changed course, running at Bellatrix rather than
Voldemort, but before he had gone a few steps he was
knocked sideways.

www.ztcprep.com

“NOT MY DAUGHTER, YOU BITCH!”
Mrs. Weasley threw off her cloak as she ran, freeing
her arms. Bellatrix spun on the spot, roaring with
laughter at the sight of her new challenger.
“OUT OF MY WAY!” shouted Mrs. Weasley to the three
girls, and with a swipe of her wand she began to duel.
Harry watched with terror and elation as Molly
Weasley’s wand slashed and twirled, and Bellatrix
Lestrange’s smile faltered and became a snarl. Jets of
light flew from both wands, the floor around the
witches’ feet became hot and cracked; both women
were fighting to kill.
“No!” Mrs. Weasley cried as a few students ran
forward, trying to come to her aid. “Get back! Get
back! She is mine!”
Hundreds of people now lined the walls, watching the
two fights, Voldemort and his three opponents,
Bellatrix and Molly, and Harry stood, invisible, torn
between both, wanting to attack and yet to protect,
unable to be sure that he would not hit the innocent.

www.ztcprep.com

“What will happen to your children when I’ve killed
you?” taunted Bellatrix, as mad as her master,
capering as Molly’s curses danced around her. “When
Mummy’s gone the same way as Freddie?”
P a g e | 833
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“You — will — never — touch — our — children —
again!” screamed Mrs. Weasley.
Bellatrix laughed, the same exhilarated laugh her
cousin Sirius had given as he toppled backward
through the veil, and suddenly Harry knew what was
going to happen before it did.
Molly’s curse soared beneath Bellatrix’s outstretched
arm and hit her squarely in the chest, directly over
her heart.
Bellatrix’s gloating smile froze, her eyes seemed to
bulge: For the tiniest space of time she knew what
had happened, and then she toppled, and the
watching crowd roared, and Voldemort screamed.
Harry felt as though he turned in slow motion; he saw

www.ztcprep.com

McGonagall, Kingsley, and Slughorn blasted
backward, flailing and writhing through the air, as
Voldemort’s fury at the fall of his last, best lieutenant
exploded with the force of a bomb. Voldemort raised
his wand and directed it at Molly Weasley.
“Protego!” roared Harry, and the Shield Charm
expanded in the middle of the Hall, and Voldemort
stared around for the source as Harry pulled off the
Invisibility Cloak at last.
The yell of shock, the cheers, the screams on every
side of “Harry!” “HE’S ALIVE!” were stifled at once.
The crowd was afraid, and silence fell abruptly and
completely as Voldemort and Harry looked at each
other, and began, at the same moment, to circle each
other.
“I don’t want anyone else to try to help,” Harry said
loudly, and in the total silence his voice carried like a
trumpet call. “It’s got to be like this. It’s got to be me.”
P a g e | 834
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling

www.ztcprep.com

Voldemort hissed.
“Potter doesn’t mean that,” he said, his red eyes wide.
“That isn’t how he works, is it? Who are you going to
use as a shield today, Potter?”
“Nobody,” said Harry simply. “There are no more
Horcruxes. It’s just you and me. Neither can live while
the other survives, and one of us is about to leave for
good. …”
“One of us?” jeered Voldemort, and his whole body
was taut and his red eyes stared, a snake that was
about to strike. “You think it will be you, do you, the
boy who has survived by accident, and because
Dumbledore was pulling the strings?”
“Accident, was it, when my mother died to save me?”
asked Harry. They were still moving sideways, both of
them, in that perfect circle, maintaining the same
distance from each other, and for Harry no face
existed but Voldemort’s. “Accident, when I decided to
fight in that graveyard? Accident, that I didn’t defend
myself tonight, and still survived, and returned to

www.ztcprep.com

fight again?”
“Accidents!” screamed Voldemort, but still he did not
strike, and the watching crowd was frozen as if
Petrified, and of the hundreds in the Hall, nobody
seemed to breathe but they two. “Accident and
chance and the fact that you crouched and sniveled
behind the skirts of greater men and women, and
permitted me to kill them for you!”
“You won’t be killing anyone else tonight,” said Harry
as they circled, and stared into each other’s eyes,
green into red. “You won’t be able to kill any of them
ever again. Don’t you get it? I was ready to die to stop
you from hurting these people —”
P a g e | 835
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“But you did not!”
“— I meant to, and that’s what did it. I’ve done what
my mother did. They’re protected from you. Haven’t
you noticed how none of the spells you put on them
are binding? You can’t torture them. You can’t touch

www.ztcprep.com

them. You don’t learn from your mistakes, Riddle, do
you?”
“You dare —”
“Yes, I dare,” said Harry. “I know things you don’t
know, Tom Riddle. I know lots of important things
that you don’t. Want to hear some, before you make
another big mistake?”
Voldemort did not speak, but prowled in a circle, and
Harry knew that he kept him temporarily mesmerized
and at bay, held back by the faintest possibility that
Harry might indeed know a final secret. …
“Is it love again?” said Voldemort, his snake’s face
jeering. “Dumbledore’s favorite solution, love, which
he claimed conquered death, though love did not stop
him falling from the tower and breaking like an old
waxwork? Love, which did not prevent me stamping
out your Mudblood mother like a cockroach, Potter —
and nobody seems to love you enough to run forward
this time and take my curse. So what will stop you
dying now when I strike?”

www.ztcprep.com

“Just one thing,” said Harry, and still they circled
each other, wrapped in each other, held apart by
nothing but the last secret.
“If it is not love that will save you this time,” said
Voldemort, “you must believe that you have magic
that I do not, or else a weapon more powerful than
mine?”
P a g e | 836
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“I believe both,” said Harry, and he saw shock flit across the snakelike face,
though it was instantly
dispelled; Voldemort began to laugh, and the sound
was more frightening than his screams; humorless
and insane, it echoed around the silent Hall.
“You think you know more magic than I do?” he said.
“Than I, than Lord Voldemort, who has performed
magic that Dumbledore himself never dreamed of?”
“Oh, he dreamed of it,” said Harry, “but he knew more
than you, knew enough not to do what you’ve done.”
“You mean he was weak!” screamed Voldemort. “Too
weak to dare, too weak to take what might have been

www.ztcprep.com

his, what will be mine!”
“No, he was cleverer than you,” said Harry, “a better
wizard, a better man.”
“I brought about the death of Albus Dumbledore!”
“You thought you did,” said Harry, “but you were
wrong.”
For the first time, the watching crowd stirred as the
hundreds of people around the walls drew breath as
one.
“Dumbledore is dead!” Voldemort hurled the words at
Harry as though they would cause him unendurable
pain. “His body decays in the marble tomb in the
grounds of this castle, I have seen it, Potter, and he
will not return!”
“Yes, Dumbledore’s dead,” said Harry calmly, “but
you didn’t have him killed. He chose his own manner
of dying, chose it months before he died, arranged the
P a g e | 837
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
whole thing with the man you thought was your

www.ztcprep.com

servant.”
“What childish dream is this?” said Voldemort, but
still he did not strike, and his red eyes did not waver
from Harry’s.
“Severus Snape wasn’t yours,” said Harry. “Snape
was Dumbledore’s, Dumbledore’s from the moment
you started hunting down my mother. And you never
realized it, because of the thing you can’t understand.
You never saw Snape cast a Patronus, did you,
Riddle?”
Voldemort did not answer. They continued to circle
each other like wolves about to tear each other apart.
“Snape’s Patronus was a doe,” said Harry, “the same
as my mother’s, because he loved her for nearly all of
his life, from the time when they were children. You
should have realized,” he said as he saw Voldemort’s
nostrils flare, “he asked you to spare her life, didn’t
he?”
“He desired her, that was all,” sneered Voldemort,
“but when she had gone, he agreed that there were

www.ztcprep.com

other women, and of purer blood, worthier of him —”
“Of course he told you that,” said Harry, “but he was
Dumbledore’s spy from the moment you threatened
her, and he’s been working against you ever since!
Dumbledore was already dying when Snape finished
him!”
“It matters not!” shrieked Voldemort, who had
followed every word with rapt attention, but now let
out a cackle of mad laughter. “It matters not whether
Snape was mine or Dumbledore’s, or what petty
obstacles they tried to put in my path! I crushed them
P a g e | 838
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
as I crushed your mother, Snape’s supposed great
love! Oh, but it all makes sense, Potter, and in ways
that you do not understand!
“Dumbledore was trying to keep the Elder Wand from
me! He intended that Snape should be the true
master of the wand! But I got there ahead of you, little
boy — I reached the wand before you could get your

www.ztcprep.com

hands on it, I understood the truth before you caught
up. I killed Severus Snape three hours ago, and the
Elder Wand, the Deathstick, the Wand of Destiny is
truly mine! Dumbledore’s last plan went wrong, Harry
Potter!”
“Yeah, it did,” said Harry. “You’re right. But before
you try to kill me, I’d advise you to think about what
you’ve done. … Think, and try for some remorse,
Riddle. …”
“What is this?”
Of all the things that Harry had said to him, beyond
any revelation or taunt, nothing had shocked
Voldemort like this. Harry saw his pupils contract to
thin slits, saw the skin around his eyes whiten.
“It’s your one last chance,” said Harry, “it’s all you’ve
got left. … I’ve seen what you’ll be otherwise. … Be a
man … try … Try for some remorse. …”
“You dare — ?” said Voldemort again.
“Yes, I dare,” said Harry, “because Dumbledore’s last
plan hasn’t backfired on me at all. It’s backfired on

www.ztcprep.com

you, Riddle.”
Voldemort’s hand was trembling on the Elder Wand,
and Harry gripped Draco’s very tightly. The moment,
he knew, was seconds away.
P a g e | 839
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
“That wand still isn’t working properly for you
because you murdered the wrong person. Severus
Snape was never the true master of the Elder Wand.
He never defeated Dumbledore.”
“He killed —”
“Aren’t you listening? Snape never beat Dumbledore!
Dumbledore’s death was planned between them!
Dumbledore intended to die undefeated, the wand’s
last true master! If all had gone as planned, the
wand’s power would have died with him, because it
had never been won from him!”
“But then, Potter, Dumbledore as good as gave me the
wand!” Voldemort’s voice shook with malicious
pleasure. “I stole the wand from its last master’s

www.ztcprep.com

tomb! I removed it against its last master’s wishes! Its
power is mine!”
“You still don’t get it, Riddle, do you? Possessing the
wand isn’t enough! Holding it, using it, doesn’t make
it really yours. Didn’t you listen to Ollivander? The
wand chooses the wizard. … The Elder Wand
recognized a new master before Dumbledore died,
someone who never even laid a hand on it. The new
master removed the wand from Dumbledore against
his will, never realizing exactly what he had done, or
that the world’s most dangerous wand had given him
its allegiance. …”
Voldemort’s chest rose and fell rapidly, and Harry
could feel the curse coming, feel it building inside the
wand pointed at his face.
“The true master of the Elder Wand was Draco
Malfoy.”
P a g e | 840
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – J.K. Rowling
Blank shock showed in Voldemort’s face for a

www.ztcprep.com

moment, but then it was gone.
“But what does it matter?” he said softly. “Even if you
are right, Potter, it makes no difference to you and
me. You no longer have the phoenix wand: We duel
on skill alone … and after I have killed you, I can
attend to Draco Malfoy. …”
“But you’re too late,” said Harry. “You’ve missed your
chance. I got there first. I overpowered Draco weeks
ago. I took this wand from him.”
Harry twitched the hawthorn wand, and he felt the
eyes of everyone in the Hall upon it.
“So it all comes down to this, doesn’t it?” whispered
Harry. “Does the wand in your hand know its last
master was Disarmed? Because if it does … I am the
true master of the Elder Wand.”
A red-gold glow burst suddenly across the enchanted
sky above them as an edge of dazzling sun appeared
over the sill of the nearest window. The light hit both
